 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCALE OF RATES  
OF 
NEW MANGALORE PORT 
AUTHORITY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 2 - 
 
Index 
 
Sr. No. Content  Page 
Nos. 
Chapter – I Definitions and General Terms & Conditions   
1.1. Definitions 6-10 
1.2. General Terms & Conditions 11-16 
Chapter – II Vessel Related Charg es  
2.1.1. Schedule of Port Dues 17 
2.1.2. Concession in port dues shall be extended to the following vessels. 17 
2.1.3. Port dues for other categories: 18 
2.2.1. Schedule of Pilotage fees 18-19 
2.2.2. Schedule of Miscellaneous Pilotage fee (other categories of vessels 
availing pilotage services) 19 
2.2.3. Schedule of shifting charges 22 
2.2.4. Cold move charges 23 
2.2.5. Charges for hire of Tugs / Launches / Other Floating Crafts 23-24 
2.2.6. Charges for Warping of vessel 25 
2.2.7. Schedule of Miscellaneous charges 25 
2.2.7.1. 
2.2.7.1(a) Charges for detention of Master Pilot/ Pilots 
Detention charges of the vessels  25-26 
26 
2.2.7.2. Pilot Attendance Charges 26 
2.2.7.3. Pilot Cancellation charges 27 
2.3.1. Schedule of Berth Hire Charges for vessels berthing for cargo 
operations 27 
2.3.2. Schedule of Berth Hire Charges for non cargo vessels/ operations 31 
2.3.3. Penal berth hire charges for Overstayal of vessel 31 
2.3.4. Guidelines on priority berthing of coastal vessels  31-32 
2.3.5. Norms for cargo handling and penalty for non-achievement of 
performance norms/ incentive for achievement of performance norms. 32 
2.3.5.1. Performance Norms  32-33 
2.3.5.2. Penalty for non- achievement/ incentive for achievement of the  
prescribed performance norms 33 
2.4. Schedule of charges for Stayal at Mooring Points 34 
2.5.1. Anchorage Charges for vessels calling port for cargo operations 35 
2.5.2. Anchorage Charges for vessels not calling for cargo operation at Port 35 
2.5.3. Consolidated charges for transhipment/ lighterage/ Ship to Ship (STS) 
at anchorage (crude oil, POL and dry bulk) 36 
2.6. Tariff at Single Point Mooring (SPM) / Single Buoy Mooring (SBM) 37 
2.7.1. Charges for Cruise vessel 38 
2.7.2. 
2.7.3 
2.7.4  Volume discount to Cruise vessel 
Miscellaneous service charges for the use of tug: 
Mandatory requirement for the Port Reception Facility (PRF) 38 
38 
38 
Chapter – III Cargo Related Charges   
3.1. Wharfage 39 
3.1.1. Wharfage on Cargo 39-42 
3.1.2. Charges for shut out/ Back to town cargo 42 
3.1.3. Goods free of wharfage 43 
3.1.4. Volume/ quantum discount on wharfage charge 46 
3.2. Demurrage Charges  46 
3.2.1 
3.2.1(a) 
3.2.1(b) Free period 
Imports 
Exports 46-47 
47-49 
49-50 
3.2.2. Schedule of Demurrage charges 50-52 
- 3 - 
 
3.3.1. Storage charges (License fee) for transit cargo for storage 52 
3.3.2. Fee for space allotted for Management of Cargo Operation (Other 
than for cargo storage) 53 
3.4. Charges for handling cargo (labour charges) 53 
3.4.1. Charges for supply of labour / staff 53-54 
3.5.               Schedule of Charges for use of Port Owned Harbour Mobile Crane 
(HMC) 54 
3.6. 
3.7 
3.8 
 
3.9 Mandatory User Charges 
Charges for use of bunkering facility alongside berths: 
Terminal charges for handling NON-EXIM Cargo at NMPA Railway 
Marshalling Yard 
Royalty Charges for Stevedoring and Shore Handling activities 56 
56 
56 
56 
56 
Chapter – IV Container Handling Charges   
4.1. Composite box rate for container 57-58 
4.2. Composite Charges for Transhipment Container 58 
4.3. Rebate 59 
4.4. Charges for lift on/lift off at yard during delivery/ receiving  59 
4.5. Shutout Containers / Back to Town Containers  60 
4.6. Reefer Monitoring and Connection 60-61 
4.7. Hatch Cover Charges for services rendered to the container vessels 61 
4.8. Stuffing / De-stuffing Charges 62 
4.9. Demurrage Charges on Container        62 
4.10. 
 
4.11 Charges for Miscellaneous Services rendered to container/container 
vessel 
Re-Stowcharges: 64 
 
65 
Chapter – V Miscellaneous Charges   
5.1. Supply of water to vessels by Port 67 
5.2. Beaching Charges  67 
5.3. Hire charges for cargo handling equipment along with conditionalities 67 
5.4. Weighment charges for use of weighbridges / weigh scales 68 
5.5. Charges for fire float vessels salvage vessels etc. 69 
5.6. Charges for carrying out bollard pull test. 69 
5.7. Charges for hire of Fender 69 
5.8. Charges for supply of skilled personnel for marine operations 69 
5.9. 
 
5.9(a) Supply of certificates / certified copies of documents /statistics, issue 
of permanent entry permit and token etc. 
Fees of issue of passes/licence for entry into the wharf: 69-70 
 
70-71 
5.10. Fumigation of cargo 72 
5.11. Charges for Fire fighting equipment/ apparatus 72 
5.12. Driver’s fees 73 
5.13. Salvage fees 73 
5.14. Granting permits for Motor Lorries, Mobile Crane etc. to ply in the 
Docks 73-74 
5.15. Passenger Fees (other than Cruise vessel) 74 
5.16. Charges payable by visitors at Passenger Berths 74 
5.17. Use of deballast tank, transfer/inter-transfer of POL products 74 
5.18. Charges for removal of goods by the port in case importer/exporter 
fails to remove the goods 75 
5.19. Issue of licenses 75-76 
5.20. Labour license fees for employing labour for handling certain cargoes 76 
5.21. Charges for use of the slipway 76 
5.22. Taking photographs or shooting films in the port premises        76 
5.23. Landing Charges for Helicopters 77 
5.24. Vehicle parking fee inside Port premises 77 
5.25. Toll Charges 78 
- 4 - 
 
5.26. Schedule of charge for Operation of Mobile X-Ray Container 
Scanning System 78 
5.27. Marshalling yard usage charges 78 
5.28. Charges for Issue of RFID Tags 79 
5.29. Cleaning Charges 79 
5.29.1. Dust Suppression Levy 79 
5.29.2. Pollution Cess 79 
5.30. Improper/ unsafe Pilot ladder, improper Boarding/ disembarking 
arrangements, inability to provide Combination Ladder 79 
5.31. Fishing harbor 
 80 
5.31.1. Consolidated charges for mechanized fishing boats/ Trawlers (Mini & 
Big) 80 
5.31.2. Charges for Government scientific survey of marine resources and 
training operations 80 
5.32. Hiring charge of Oil Spill Response equipments 80 
5.33. Other Miscellaneous Charges 81 
5.34. 
5.35 
 
5.36. 
5.37 
5.38 Dry Docking Charges 
Dwell Time Charges for Motor Vehicle / Equipments 
(Import/Export/Transhipment) 
Ancillary service charges for Cargo Drying: 
Pollution Mitigation charges: 
Penalties for safety management violations inside wharf: 81 
81 
 
82 
82 
82-83 
Chapter -VI Authorized Service Providers Charges   
6.1. Schedule for charges for Harbour Mobile Crane (HMC)  84 
Chapter -VII Railway Services Charges  86 
Chapter-VIII Performance Standards  87 
 
- 5 - 
 
 
Information about the Major Port Authority 
 
 
Hours of Operations:   
Regular Office Hours 9.30 AM to 5.30 PM on Port Working 
days 
Operational Hours 24 Hours per day, 7 days a week 
Contact Numbers:  0824-2407341 (24 lines) 
Fax Number:  2408390 
Email ID:  revenuesection@nmpt.gov.in 
Address:  NEW MANGALORE PORT 
AUTHORITY,  
Ministry of Ports,Shipping and 
Waterways 
Government of India 
Panambur, Mangalore-575010, 
D.K. District, Karnataka 
Website:  www. https://newmangaloreport.gov.in/ 
SOR effective  Date: 01-05-2026 to 30-4-2027 
Period of validity:  3 Years.(w.e.f 07-05-2026) 
- 6 - 
 
MAJOR PORT AUTHORITY 
SCALE OF RATES 
 
CHAPTER- I 
 
1.1. Definitions 
  
In this Scale of Rates, unless context otherwise requires, the following definitions 
shall apply: 
 
(i). “Back to Town cargo/ container ” shall mean a cargo/ container 
entering the Port for export for a vessel voyage but unable to be 
exported for some reason and removed from the Port.  
 
(ii). “ Ballast” shall mean solid or liquid material placed in the holds of a ship 
or more often in the ballast tanks, positioned in the compartments right 
at the bottom and in rare cases on the sides for stabilization and make 
ship seaworthy in all respects. This may consist of liquid material 
commonly water.  
 
(iii).  “ Barge” shall mean a flat bottomed vessel whether self-propelled or not 
and registered as Barge by the Competent Authority.    
 
(iv). “Coastal vessel” shall mean any vessel exclusively employed in 
trading between any ports or place in India to any other port or place in 
India having a valid coastal license issued by the Directorate General of 
Shipping/ Competent Authority.  
 
(v). “Container”  means any freight container complying with all relevant 
prevailing ISO standards designed to facilitate the carriage and 
transport of cargo by one or more modes and capable of being handled 
as a unit with devices permitting ready handling and with unique 
identification numbers and markings.  
 
(vi). " Crew" shall mean personnel employed for operation or serving on a 
vessel other than passengers as a part of performing the functions of 
manning;  
 
(vii). “ Cruise Vessel ” shall mean any vessel other than pleasure yachts 
carrying passengers for an ocean trip taken for purpose of tourism or 
pleasure calling at ports.   
 
(viii). “ Cold Move” shall mean the movement of vessel without the power of 
the engine of the vessel.  
 
(ix). “Day” shall mean the period of 24 hours starting from 6 am of a day 
and ending at 6 am on the following day.  
 
- 7 - 
 
(x). “Demurrage”  shall mean charges payable for storage of cargo/ 
container within the Port premises beyond the free period specified in 
the Scale of Rates and shall not include the cargo / container stored at 
the areas licensed to Port users for storage purposes.  
 
(xi). “Foreign going vessel” shall mean any vessel other than coastal 
vessel and Inland Vessel.  
 
(xii). “Free period”  shall mean the period during which cargo or container 
shall be allowed storage free of Demurrage Charges or Storage 
Charges, as the case may be, and this period shall be exclusive of 
Customs notified holidays and port non-working days.  
 
(xiii). “Full Container Load” (FCL)  shall mean a container containing cargo 
belonging to one consignee.  
 
(xiv). “ Goods” includes livestock and every kind of movable property.  
 
(xv). “ GRT” means Gross Registered Tonnage / Gross Tonnage of vessel as 
per the Ship’s Registry or the International Tonnage Certificate issued 
by the competent authorities or a declaration from defense Authorities in 
respect of war ships/ Naval ships.  
 
(xvi). “Hazardous Container”  shall mean a container containing hazardous 
goods as classified in the International Maritime Dangerous Goods 
(IMDG) Code by International Maritime Organisation (IMO) including 
empty container with residual content of hazardous material.  
 
(xvii). “Hazardous Cargo ” shall mean any cargo as is defined in the 
International Maritime Dangerous Goods (IMDG) Code by International 
Maritime Organisation (IMO).  
 
(xviii). “Hazardous Chemicals” shall mean and include the chemicals 
referred under Schedule-I, Schedule-II and Schedule-III of Manufacture, 
Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989 framed under 
Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and Rules, as applicable from time 
to time and shall also include cargo /chemicals declared as dangerous 
in the International Maritime Dangerous Goods (IMDG) Code.  
 
(xix). “Inland Vessel” shall mean any mechanically propelled inland vessel 
or non-mechanically propelled inland vessel which is registered and 
plying in inland waters, but does not include- 
 
(a). a fishing vessel registered under the Merchant Shipping Act, 
1958 (44 of 1958) or the Marine Products Export Development 
Authority Act, 1972 (13 of 1972); and 
 
(b). any vessel that are specified as not to be inland vessels by 
notification by the Central Government.  
 
- 8 - 
 
(xx). “Less than a Container Load” (LCL)  shall mean a container 
containing cargo belonging to more than one consignee.  
 
(xxi). “ M.T.” shall mean Metric Tonne. 
 
(xxii). “ Major Port or Major Port Authority ” shall mean the Major Port as 
defined in clause (8) of Section 3 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908.  
 
(xxiii). “ Master”, in relation to any vessel or any aircraft making use of any 
Major Port, means any person having for the time being the charge or 
control of such vessel or such aircraft, as the case may be, except a 
pilot, harbour master, assistant harbour master, dock master or berthing 
master of the Major Port.   
 
(xxiv). “Month” shall mean 30 consecutive calendar days including holidays.  
 
(xxv). “ Over dimensional container ” shall mean a container beyond the 
normal size of standard containers and needing special devices like 
slings, shackles, lifting beam etc.   They also included damaged 
containers and other types which require special devices  
 
(xxvi). “ Ousting Priority ” – When a working vessel at berth is removed 
(ousted) from the berth and shifted to stream / another berth / mooring/ 
anchorage for accommodating another cargo / container / cruise vessel, 
such movement shall be treated as “ousting priority” berthing.   
 
(xxvii). ‘ Pleasure Yacht’  shall means a ship howsoever propelled which is 
exclusively used for pleasure cruises and does not carry any 
passengers on a commercial basis.  
 
(xxviii). “ Port Limits ” in relation to a Major Port, means the limits of such Major 
Port as may be determined by the Central Government by way of 
notification from time to time as defined at clause No.2 (1) (y) of Major 
Port Authorities Act, 2021.  
 
(xxix). “ Priority berthing ” if a vessel having a priority for a given berth arrives, 
she will berthed ahead of other vessel waiting for that berth once the 
berth falls vacant.  
 
(xxx). “ Reefer Container ” shall mean a refrigerated container used for 
carriage of perishable goods or goods needing a desired temperature to 
be maintained with provision for electrical supply to maintain the desired 
temperature. 
 
(xxxi). ‘‘ Roll On/ Roll Off (RO/ RO) Vessel ” shall mean a method of ocean 
cargo service using a vessel with ramps which allows wheeled vehicles 
to be loaded and discharged without cranes and also refers to any 
specialised vessels designed to carry Ro/ Ro cargo.   
 
- 9 - 
 
(xxxii). “ Sailing vessel ” shall means any primitive or traditionally built wooden 
vessel not primarily propelled provided with sufficient sail area for 
navigation under sails alone, whether or not fitted with mechanical 
means of propulsion but does not include a pleasure craft.  
 
(xxxiii). “ Segregated ballast”  shall mean the ballast water introduced into a 
tank which is completely separated from the cargo oil and oil fuel 
system and which is permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast.  
 
(xxxiv). “Shut out Cargo/ Container” shall mean any cargo / container brought 
into the port for shipment for a particular vessel but not shipped by the 
designated vessel and is lying in the port premises for being re-shipped 
on another vessel.  
 
(xxxv). “Shift” shall mean the duration of 8 hours constituting 3 shifts in a day 
as given below: 
  
         6.00  hrs to 14.00 hrs; 
 
         14.00 hrs to 22.00 hrs; 
 
          22.00 hrs to 6.00 hrs; 
 
(xxxvi). “ Shifting” shall mean the movement of a vessel from one berth to 
another berth or from one berth to anchorage / mooring or vice versa 
within the port limits.  
 
(xxxvii). “Single Buoy Mooring” (SBM) or “Single Point Mooring” (SPM) are 
loading buoys anchored offshore and serve as a mooring point for 
tanker vessel to off load gas and/or liquid products.  
 
(xxxviii). "Stream Loading" denotes loading of vessel exclusively at places 
other than at berths. 
 
(xxxix). “ TEU” shall mean Twenty Feet Equivalent Unit of container and FEU 
shall mean Forty Feet Equivalent Unit.  
 
(xL). “ Transhipment Cargo / Container ” shall mean any container / cargo 
landed at the Port and subsequently shipped through another vessel to 
other destined Port.  
  
(xLi). “ Vessel” includes anything made for the conveyance by water of 
human being or of goods.  
  
(xLii). “ Warping ” shall mean movement of vessel (other than shifting) by 
means of her mooring ropes to facilitate operations. 
 
 
 
- 10 - 
 
(xLiii).  “ Wharf” includes any wall or stage and any part of the land or foreshore 
that may be used for loading or unloading goods, or for the embarkation 
or disembarkation of passengers and any wall enclosing or adjoining 
the same.  
 
(xLiv). "Wharfage " shall mean the basic due recoverable on all 
cargo/container landed or shipped or transhipped within the port limits 
and approaches or passing through the port, whether porteraged was 
provided by the port or not.  
 
(xLv). “Week” shall mean 7 days consecutively including holidays.  
 
Note:   
 
Except the terms explicitly defined hereinabove, all other terms used in this Scale 
of Rates will have the same definition as in the Major Port Authorities Act, 2021, 
the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 and the Indian Ports Act, 1908 as amended from 
time to time. 
 
 
- 11 - 
 
1.2. General Terms & Conditions  
 
(i). Status of vessel : The status of the vessel as borne out by its certification by 
the Customs or the Directorate General of Shipping, shall be the deciding 
factor for its classification as ‘coastal’ or ‘foreign-going’ for the purpose of 
levying vessel related charges. The nature of cargo or its origin will not be of 
any relevance for this purpose.  
 
(ii). A. System of classification of vessel for levy of Vessel Related 
Charges (VRC):  
 
(a). A foreign going vessel of Indian flag having a General Trading 
Licence can convert to coastal run on the basis of a Customs 
Conversion Order. Such vessel that converts into coastal run 
based on the Customs Conversion Order at her first port of 
call in Indian Port will not require any, further custom 
conversion, so long as it moves on the Indian Coast.  
 
(b). A Foreign going vessel of foreign flag can convert to coastal 
run on the basis of a License for Specified period or voyage 
issued by the Director General of Shipping and a custom 
conversion order.  
 
 B.  Criteria for levy of Vessel Related Charges (VRC) at 
Concessional Coastal rate and foreign rate:  
 
(a). In cases of such conversion coastal rates shall be chargeable 
by the load port from the time the 'converted vessel' starts 
loading coastal goods. 
 
(b).  In cases of such conversion coastal rates shall be chargeable 
till the vessel completes discharging operations at the last call 
of Indian Port; immediately thereafter, foreign going rates 
shall be chargeable by the discharge ports.  
 
(c). For dedicated Indian coastal vessels having a Coastal 
License from the Director General of Shipping, no other 
document will be required to be entitled to coastal rates.  
 
 C.  Criteria for levy of Cargo Related Charges (CRC) at 
Concessional Coastal rate:  
 
(a). Foreign going Indian Vessel having General Trading License 
issued for “worldwide and coastal” operation should be 
accorded applicable coastal rates with respect to Handling 
Charges (HC) i.e. ship to shore transfer and transfer from/ to 
quay to/ from storage yard including wharfage in the following 
scenario:  
  
- 12 - 
 
(i). Converted to coastal run and carrying coastal cargo 
from any Indian Port and destined for any other Indian 
Port.  
 
   (ii). Not converted* to coastal run but carrying coastal 
cargo from any Indian Port and destined for any other 
Indian Port.  
   
 * The Central Board of Excise and Customs Circular 
no.15/2002- Cus. dated 25 February 2002 allows 
carriage of coastal cargo from one Indian port to 
another port in India, in Indian flag foreign going 
vessels without any custom conversion.  
 
(b). In case of a Foreign flag vessel converted to coastal run on 
the basis of a License for Specified period or voyage issued 
by the Director General of Shipping, and a Custom 
Conversion Order, the coastal cargo/ container loaded from 
any Indian Port and destined for any other Indian Port should 
be levied at the rate applicable for coastal cargo/ container. 
 
 (iii). (a). All US dollar denominated tariff will be recovered in Indian Rupees 
after conversion of charges in US dollar terms into its equivalent 
Indian Rupees at the Reference rate notified by the Reserve Bank of 
India and in case of non-availability of RBI Reference rate, at the 
market buying rate notified by State Bank of India.  
 
 (b). The day of entry of the vessel into port limits shall be reckoned as 
the day for such conversion. In respect of US dollar denominated 
charges on containers, the day of entry of the vessel into the port 
limit in the case of import containers and the day of arrival of 
containers into the port in the case of export containers shall be 
reckoned as the day for such conversion. 
 
(c). A regular review of exchange rate shall be made once in 30 days 
from the date of arrival in the cases of vessels staying in the port for 
more than 30 days. The basis of billing shall change prospectively 
with reference to the appropriate exchange rate prevailing at the 
time of review.  
 
(iv).  (a). Vessel related charges shall be levied on Shipowners/ Steamer 
Agents. Wherever rates have been denominated in US dollar terms, 
the charges shall be recovered in Indian rupees after conversion of 
US currency to its equivalent Indian rupees as prescribed at clause 
No. (iii) (a).  
  
(b). Container related charges denominated in US dollar terms shall be 
collected in equivalent Indian rupees as prescribed at clause No. (v) 
(a).  
 
- 13 - 
 
(v). All the charges prescribed in the Scale of Rates are exclusive of taxes.  
Applicable taxes, if any, shall be charged.  
 
(vi). User shall pay all port charges in advance.  
 
(vii). Users shall not be required to pay charges for delays beyond a reasonable 
level attributable to the port.  
 
(viii). Interest on delayed payments/ refunds :  
 
 (a). The user shall pay penal interest at the rate of 15% per annum 
(simple interest) on delayed payments. Likewise, Port shall pay 
penal interest on delayed refunds  at the rate of 15% per annum 
(simple interest).  
 
 (b). The delay in payments by user will be counted beyond 10 days 
after the date of raising the bills. This provision will not apply to the 
case where payment is to be made before availing of the services/ 
use of port properties as prescribed in the SOR. 
 
 (c). The delay in refunds by the port will be counted beyond 20 days 
from the date of completion of services or on production of all 
documents required from the user, whichever is later.  
 
(ix). All charges worked out shall be rounded off to the next higher rupee on the 
grand total of each bill.  
 
(x). No person shall be entitled to a refund of an overcharges made by a port 
unless his claim to the refund has been preferred in writing by him or on his 
behalf to the port within six months from the date of raising bill duly 
supported by all relevant documents and original invoice.  Provided that a 
Port may of its own motion remit overcharges made in its bills at any time.  
 
(xi). (a). When Port Authority notices that any charge leviable has been short-
levied or erroneously refunded, it may issue a notice to the person who 
is liable to pay such charge or to whom the refund has erroneously 
been made, allowing him to represent within 30 days from the date of 
receipt of the notice. 
 
(b). The Port may, after considering the representation, if any, made by the 
person to whom notice is issued as at (a) above, determine the amount 
due from such person and thereupon such person shall pay the amount 
so determined. 
 
(xiii). No refund shall be made unless the amount refundable is `100/- or more. 
Similarly, short collection upto `100/- will not be demanded by the port.  
 
(xiv). In calculating the gross weight or measurement by volume or capacity of 
any individual item, fractions upto 0.5 shall be taken as 0.5 unit and 
- 14 - 
 
fractions above 0.5 shall be treated as one unit, except where otherwise 
specified.  
 
(xv). (a). The vessel related charges for all coastal vessel should not exceed 
60% of the corresponding charges for foreign vessels.  
 
 (b). The cargo/ container related charges for all coastal cargo/ 
containers, other than thermal coal and POL including crude oil iron 
ore and iron ore pellets should not exceed 60% of the corresponding 
charges for normal cargo/container related charges. 
   
 (c). In case of cargo related charges, the concessional rates should be 
levied on all the relevant handling charges for ship-shore transfer 
and transfer from/ to quay to/ from storage yard including wharfage. 
 
 (d). In case of container related charges, the concession is applicable on 
composite box rate. Where itemized charges are levied, the 
concession will be on all the relevant charges for ship-shore transfer 
and transfer from/ to quay to/ from storage yard as well as wharfage 
on cargo and containers. 
 
 (e). Cargo/ container from a foreign port which reaches an Indian Port ‘A’ 
for subsequent transshipment to Indian Port ‘B’ will also qualify in so 
far as the charges relevant for its coastal voyage. In other words, 
cargo/containers from/to Indian Ports carried by vessels permitted to 
undertake coastal voyage will qualify for the concession. 
 
 To amplify, in case a container from foreign port reaches Indian Port 
‘A’ for subsequent transshipment to India Port ‘B’, 50% of foreign 
going rate and 50% of coastal rate shall be applicable for vessels 
permitted to undertake coastal voyage. (MOPSW letter No.PR-
14019/29/2001-PG dated 03 January 2005) 
 
(xvi). Concessional coastal tariff for ships and cargo that move from one Indian 
Port to another Indian Port through the territorial waters of Sri Lanka or 
Bangladesh in terms of Notification No.38/2018-Customs (NT) dated 
11.05.2018 issued by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, 
Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance. 
 
(a). Coastal goods transported between an Indian Port on east coast and 
another Indian port on west coast or vice versa, by a vessel through 
the territorial waters of Sri. Lanka, whether or not calling any port in 
Sri. Lanka in between and without change of vessel in terms 
Notification No.38/2018-Customs (NT) dated 11.05.2018 issued by 
the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs shall be eligible for 
concession in vessel related charges and cargo related charges. 
 
(b). Coastal goods transported between an Indian port on east coast and 
a river port in India or vice versa, by a vessel through a route 
passing through the Bangladeshi waters and without change or 
- 15 - 
 
vessel in terms of Notification No. 38/2018-Customs (NT) dated 
11.05.2018 issued by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and 
Customs shall be eligible for concession in vessel related charges 
and cargo related charges. 
  
(xvii). (a).  As per Clause 6 of the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for 
operation of Indo-Bangladesh Coastal Shipping Agreement, the 
vessels entering into India from Bangladesh under the Coastal 
Shipping Agreement between India and Bangladesh are not to be 
treated as foreign going (FG) vessels. 
 
 (b).  Port and other charges: 
 
(i). Port dues to be levied by the Port on the entry of vessels of 
the Republic of Bangladesh into India under the Coastal 
Shipping Agreement between the two countries and engaged 
in inter country trade, will be treated as domestic vessel 
engaged in coastal shipping and not as Foreign Going (FG) 
vessels.  
 
(ii). The Port shall also on the vessels of the Republic of 
Bangladesh levy charges for conservancy, pilotage and other 
specific services at par with those charged from the coastal 
vessels. The charges will be determined with reference to 
cargo carrying capacity of the vessels, as applicable to 
coastal vessel engaged in coastal shipping. 
    
 
(xviii). The rates prescribed in this SOR are applicable only to the services 
provided by the Port. The services offered by any other authorized service 
provider are not governed by the rates and conditions prescribed in this 
SOR, unless tariff for such authorized service provider is specifically 
prescribed in this SOR.  
 
(xix). (a). The SOR is valid for 3 years from the effective date of implementation 
of the SOR, subject to automatic annual indexation in the tariff at 60% 
of the Wholesale Price Index (WPI) to be annually announced by the 
Indian Port Association (IPA) or any other Competent Authority decided 
by the Government.   
 
(b). The Port would, be entitled to indexation in tariff at 100% of variation in 
WPI communicated by the IPA or any other Competent Authority 
decided by the Government instead of 60% variation in WPI, from the 
second year of tariff fixation on achievement of performance standards 
committed by the Major Port Authority. 
 
(c). The next annual indexation in SOR will be from 1st May 2026.  
 
- 16 - 
 
(d). Such adjustment of SOR will be made every year and the adjusted 
SOR will come into force from 1st May of the relevant year to 30th April 
of the following year.  
 
(e).  The indexed SOR arrived by the Port shall be intimated by the port to 
the users by hosting it on the Port website  
 
(xx). (a). The rates prescribed in the Scale of Rates are ceiling levels subject to 
annual indexation. The Port may, if it so desires, charge lower rates 
than the notified rates and/or allow higher rebates and discounts or 
increase the prescribed free period.  
 
 (b). The port may, if it so desires, rationalise the prescribed conditionalities 
governing the application of rates prescribed in the Scale of Rates if 
such rationalisation gives relief to the user in rate per unit and the unit 
rates prescribed in the Scale of Rates do not exceed the ceiling level. 
 
 
 
- 17 - 
 
CHAPTER- II 
 
VESSEL RELATED CHARGES  
 
2.1.1. Schedule of Port Dues 
 
Sl. 
No. Description  Rate per GRT per each entry  
Coastal vessel 
(in Rs) Foreign-going vessel  
(in US $) 
1. Port Dues ( Ships/Steamers)  6.6576 
 0.4110 
 
 
 
2.1.2. Concession in port dues shall be extended to the following vessels . 
 
Sl. 
No. Description Concession/ 
Exemption 
1 (i). Vessels entering the port limit in ballast and not carrying passengers  25% 
(ii). A vessel in distress with no cargo on board brought in to harbour in 
tow  
2 Vessels entering the port but does not discharge or take in any cargo or 
passengers therein but calling the port for ship provisions, crew change, 
bunkering, medical assistance and for similar services rendered to vessel 
excluding the vessels calling the port for purposes of repairs.  50% 
3 (i). Any vessel, which having left the Port, is compelled to re-enter by 
stress of weather or in consequence of having sustained any damage   
100% (ii). Vessel, which paid port dues and leaves the port limits without taking 
port clearance for hatch cleaning, tank washing before commencement 
of loading and re-enters. 
 
 
 
Notes to Schedule 2.1.1 and 2.1.2 above: 
 
(1). Port dues being an entry fee is to be realized as per the status of the vessel 
at the time of the entry.  
 
(2). Any vessel entering the Port limit from outside shall be treated as fresh 
entry.  
 
(3).  Port dues shall levied only once for entry of a vessel, irrespective of any 
change of her Name/ Agent(s)/ Owner(s), during the stay in the port.  
 
(4). For oil tankers with segregated ballast, the reduced gross tonnage that is 
indicated in the “Remarks” column of its International Tonnage Certificate will 
be taken to be its gross tonnage for the purpose of levying Port Dues. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 18 - 
 
2.1.3. Port dues for other categories : 
 
Sl. 
No. Particulars Unit of levy  Coastal 
vessel 
(in `) 
Coastal 
vessel 
(in Rs) Foreign-
going 
vessel 
(in US $) Frequency of payment 
1. Floating craft, dumb barge 
and other type of barges 
entering the port limits for 
cargo handling purposes in 
the port. Per GRT * * (To be decided by respective Port 
as per local port condition) 
2. Floating craft, dumb barge 
and other type of barges 
entering the port limits and 
not handling cargo in the 
port. Per GRT * * (To be decided by respective Port 
as per local port condition) 
3. Pleasure yacht  Per yacht  Nil Nil N.A  
4. Inland vessels/ sailing vessel Per GRT * * (To be decided by respective Port 
as per local port condition) 
5. Drill ship, jack-up rigs Per GRT * * Per entry 
6. Dredgers  Per GRT * * Per entry 
7. Tug boats, ferry boats and 
river boats whether propelled 
by steam or other 
mechanical means Per GRT * * (To be decided by respective Port 
as per local port condition) 
8. Tugs, Launches, Sailing 
vessels, Barge, etc.  not 
included above  Per GRT 3.0735 
 0.0657 
 Each entry  
9. Bunker Barge Per GRT 3.0735 
 0.0657 
 Once During First Entry 
10. Vessels calling 
exclusively for bunkering 
at berth Per GRT 6.6576 
 0.4110 
 Each entry 
11. Vessels calling 
exclusively for bunkering 
at Anchorage  Nil Nil NA 
 
* as and when applicable. 
 
 
2.2.1. Schedule of Pilotage fees 
 
Sl. 
No. Size of the vessel Rate per GRT 
Coastal 
(in Rs) Foreign- going (in 
US $) 
1. Upto 30000 GRT ₹14.065   0.5269 
2. 30001 to 6000                                                                                                                              
0 GRT ₹4,21,950+ ₹11.251 per 
GRT over 30000 GRT USD 15,807 + USD 
0.4217 per GRT over 
30,000 GRT 
3. 60001 GRT and 
above ₹7,59,480 + ₹9.840 per 
GRT over 60,000 GRT USD  28,458 + USD 
0.3692 per GRT over 
60,000 GRT 
- 19 - 
 
4. Sr. No. (i) above is subject to a minimum pilotage fee of US$ 1580.7 for foreign 
going vessel and Rs. 42,194 for coastal vessel. 
 
 
2.2.2. Schedule of Miscellaneous Pilotage fee (other categories of vessels 
availing pilotage services):  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* as and when applicable. 
 
 
Notes to Schedule 2.2.1. and 2.2.2. :  
 
(1). Pilotage fee is a composite fee and shall include one inward and one 
outward movement with services of ports’ pilot(s), with required number of 
tugs/ launches of adequate capacity, mooring crew and shifting(s) of 
vessels for ‘port convenience’.  Shifting at the request of vessel will attract 
separate shifting charges.  
  
(2). No charges shall be levied for shifting of a vessel for port convenience.  
 
(i). “Port convenience” is defined to mean the following: Sr. 
No. Particulars Unit Coastal (in 
Rs.) Foreign- 
going (in 
US $) 
1. 
 Floating crane/ craft, barge, self propelled 
barge, dumb barge, lash barge and any other 
type of barges Per GRT * * 
2. Pleasure yacht Per yacht * * 
3. Inland vessels/ Sailing vessels. Per GRT * * 
4. Drill ship, jack-up rigs, rig vessel Per GRT * * 
5. Dredgers  Per GRT * * 
6. Off Shore Supply Vessels, Survey vessels 
and specific support vessels Per GRT * * 
7. Tug boats, ferry boats and river boats, 
whether propelled by steam or other 
mechanical means Per GRT * * 
8. Fishing trawlers/ vessels availing pilotage 
service of the Port Per 
trawler  * * 
9. Barges, Tugs, Launches, etc., not 
specified above and sailing vessels 
[with/without auxiliary engines] and 
fishing vessel upto GRT 199  Rate per 
vessel ₹3,136.02  
 USD 
117.078  
10. GRT 200 and above Rate per 
vessel ₹4,702.24  USD 
175.61 
11. Bunker Barge (One time during First 
Entry Rate per 
vessel ₹3,136.02  USD 
117.078 
12. For vessels calling exclusively at berth Rate per 
vessel As per 
2.2.1 
above As per 
2.2.1 
above 
13. For vessels calling exclusively at 
Anchorage (Based on request) Rate per 
vessel As per 
2.2.1 
above As per 
2.2.1 
above 
- 20 - 
 
 
(a). If a working cargo vessel at berth or /mooring is shifted / un-
berthed for undertaking hydrographic survey work or for 
allotting a berth for the dredger or for attending to repairs to 
berths, maintenance and such other similar works whereby 
shifting is necessitated, such shifting shall be considered as 
“shifting for Port convenience”. The shifting made to 
reposition such shifted vessel is also considered as “shifting 
for Port convenience”.  
 
(b). If any vessel is shifted to accommodate any other vessel for 
the convenience of port operations shall be treated “shifting 
for Port convenience”.  
 
(c). Whenever a vessel is shifted to accommodate another vessel 
which can not be berthed at other berths due to draft and 
LOA restrictions vessel is considered as “shifting for Port 
convenience”.  
 
(d). Whenever a vessel is shifted to accommodate another vessel 
carrying hazardous cargo which needs adjacent berth to be 
kept vacant for safety reasons is also considered as “shifting 
for Port convenience”.  
 
(e). Whenever a vessel is shifted to accommodate another vessel 
having priority at the adjacent berth and unless that vessel 
shifts, another vessel cannot be berthed at the adjacent berth 
due to length restrictions such shifting is also considered as 
“shifting for Port convenience”.  
 
(f). Whenever a Vessel is shifted to/from anchorage due to tidal 
restrictions, cyclone, flood or any other natural calamities, it 
will be considered as “shifting for Port convenience”.  
 
(g). Whenever a vessel is shifted from berth to accommodate 
another vessel on ousting priority, the vessel shifted is 
exempted from the payment of shifting charges since the 
same is paid by the vessel enjoying the ousting priority.  
 
(h). The benefit of Port Convenience will not be applicable in the 
following cases: 
(i). Non-cargo vessel which in any case have to vacate the 
berth when cargo vessels arrive. 
(ii). Vessels using the berth exclusively for overside 
loading/ discharge. 
(iii). Vessels which are idling at berth without doing any 
cargo handling operations. 
 
(3). Pilotage is leviable in all cases except the following:  
 
- 21 - 
 
(i). For vessels upto and below 200 GRT, no Pilotage services will be 
provided and hence no Pilotage fees will be levied. Such vessels 
may, however, ask for pilot if they so desire on payment of fees as 
specified in the Schedule of Pilotage fees.  
 
(ii).  Separate consolidated charges are prescribed for a particular vessel 
category and note therein states that it includes pilotage fee. 
 
(4). Where a movement of vessel is aborted or had to be changed due to 
reasons like Tug failure, insufficiency of length, insufficiency of depth, lack 
of proper fenders etc., for which the vessel is not at fault, no charge shall 
be levied for the unsuccessful operations involved till she occupies allotted 
berth/ mooring.  
 
(5). If the status of the vessel is changed during its stay in the Port, from foreign 
run to coastal run or vice versa, then the consolidated pilotage should be 
divided into two equal halves (i.e., one for inward and the other for outward 
pilotage) which should be charged according to the status of the vessel 
prevailing at the time of taking place of relevant movement.  
 
(6). In case the vessel, after discharging cargo(es) shifts to anchorage for want 
of a suitable berth for continuation of unloading or if a vessel after loading 
cargo(es), shifts to anchorage for want of a suitable berth for continuation 
of loading then these movements shall be treated as ‘shifting’ and shifting 
charges shall be levied except when shifting is done for Port Convenience.  
 
(7).  For vessels on cold move during pilotage operations, cold move charges 
will be applicable as prescribed in Schedule 2.2.4. 
 
(8).   In the event of the vessel carrying a Pilot outside the Port limits for 
unavoidable reasons, the Master shall be bound to leave the pilot at the 
next nearest port and Master, Owner or his representatives shall be 
responsible for the repatriation and all connected formalities thereof and 
also be liable to pay all expenses incurred in the matter of boarding, 
lodging, other reasonable expenses and repatriation of the Pilot thus over 
carried. In addition, compensation at the rate of ₹111.19 for coastal vessel 
or US$ 4.16 for foreign going vessels per hour shall be payable by the 
Master of the vessel till the Pilot reports back to duty at the port. 
 
(9).   Pilotage-charges shall be levied for Coast Guard/Naval and other  
         Government Vessels as per the rate applicable to other vessels.   
 
(10)     Pilotage fees shall be collected based on the GRT of the Vessels, Deck  
           Cargo shall   be exempted from assessment of Pilotage fees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 22 - 
 
2.2.3. Schedule of shifting charges. 
  
Sl. 
No. Size of the vessel  Rate per GRT per shifting  
Coastal (in Rs .) Foreign- going (in 
US $) 
1. Upto 30000 GRT ₹3.5189 USD 0.1314 
2. 30001 to 60000 GRT  ₹1,05,568 + ₹2.8237 per 
GRT over 30,000 GRT USD 3,942.26+ USD 
0.1051 per GRT over 
30,000 GRT 
3. 60001 and above  ₹1,90,280 + 2.4653 per 
GRT over 60,000 GRT USD 7095.26 + USD 
0.09198 per GRT 
over 60,000 GRT 
4. Sr. No. (i) above is subject to a minimum shifting charges of US$ 394.15 for foreign 
going vessel and Rs.10556.78  for coastal vessel. 
 Rate per vessel  
(i).  
(a). Barges, Tugs, Launches, 
etc., not specified above and 
sailing vessels [with/without 
auxiliary engines] and fishing 
vessel upto GRT 199  ₹783.71 USD 29.346 
per vessel 
 
(b).  GRT 200 and above ₹1,175.56 USD 43.985 
per vessel 
 
(ii). (a). Bunker Barge Nil Nil 
(b). for Vessels calling for 
bunkering exclusively at 
berth Nil Nil 
 
  
Notes: 
 
(1). Shifting charges shall be levied for movement of a vessel within the port 
(i.e. from stream to berth, change of berth or anchorages, one harbour/ 
dock to another harbour/ dock and vice versa and turn around berthing, as 
applicable, to the concerned port ), at the request of the user or for other 
than ‘port convenience’.  
 
(2). Shifting of a vessel to anchorage and re-entry at the request of the user or 
for other than port convenience shall be considered as a pilotage operation 
and will attract additional pilotage charges at the rates prescribed in above 
Schedule.  
 
(3). For shifting/ pilotage of any vessel for the convenience of/ benefit of 
another vessel, the vessel benefited is liable to pay the shifting/ pilotage 
charges for shifting and repositioning of the vessel shifted.  
 
(4). Where a movement of a vessel is aborted or had to be changed due to 
reasons like tug failure, insufficiency of length, insufficiency of depth, lack 
of proper fenders, etc. for which the vessel is not at fault, no charge shall 
- 23 - 
 
be levied for the unsuccessful operation involved till she occupies allotted 
berth.  
 
(5). For vessels on cold move during shifting operations, cold move charges will 
be applicable as prescribed in schedule 2.2.4. 
 
(6)      When tugs are not used for shifting, 50% concession shall be given on 
shifting charges. 
 
(7)      The shifting charges prescribed above are for the movement of vessels  
          within the dock basin. Shifting vessel from any berth to anchorage shall   
          mean completion of  Pilotage act. On re-entry by the vessel, Pilotage fees  
          afresh shall be payable as prescribed under the schedule. 
 
(8)      Shifting of vessels (other han IOP vessels) from Berth No. 8 to any other 
general cargo berths after lightening operation and vice versa for shipment 
of export cargo for topping up/trimming operation as “SHIFTING FOR 
PORT CONVENIENCE” and no shifting charges shall be levied till 
operationalization of Berth No 17. 
 
(9)     Shifting of any working vessels from general cargo berth to facilitate on 
arrival berthing of passenger/ cruise vessels shall be considered as 
“SHIFTING FOR PORT CONVENIENCE” and no shifting charges shall be 
levied. 
 
 
2.2.4. Cold move charges  
 
Sl. No. Description  Rate 
1. In case the vessel has to be brought in 
and taken out as cold move. 0.20 times (20%) the applicable pilotage 
fee. 
2. In case the vessel has one way cold 
move with engines shut off and the other 
way normal move with engines running. 0.20 times (20%) the applicable pilotage 
fee. 
3. Any shifting with cold move. 0.20 times the applicable shifting charges. 
 
 
Notes: During the course of movement, if a vessel fails to offer its full power for a 
duration exceeding 5  minutes, it shall be considered as cold move.  
 
2.2.5. Charges for hire of Tugs / Launches / Other Floating Crafts  
 
Sl. 
No. Description Unit Rate  
Coastal (in 
₹Rs ) Foreign- 
going  
(in US $) 
I. Hire charges for Tug    
1. Tug  per tug per hour or 
part thereof ₹11,947.16  USD 
286.72 
  2. Tug (of ______ Ton) per tug per hour or 
part thereof * * 
- 24 - 
 
  3. Tug (of ______ Ton) per tug per hour or 
part thereof * * 
II. Hire of launches    
1.  Pilot launch per launch per hour or 
part thereof ₹ 3,452.97  USD 
82.53 
2 Service Launches 
(i). Passenger Launch 
(ii) per launch per hour or 
part thereof * * 
3. Mooring launch / boat  
 per launch per hour or 
part thereof ₹2,854.95  USD 
68.10 
III Other Floating Crafts.    
1. Pollution Control Vessel per craft per hour or 
part thereof * * 
2. Oil Reception Barge. per craft per hour or 
part thereof * * 
3. Dredger  per craft per hour or 
part thereof * * 
4. Survey Launch per launch per hour or 
part thereof * * 
5. Tug hire charges when requisitioned but not utilised or 
delayed (applicable for all tugs irrespective of their 
capacity).    
(i). Non-utilisation of the tug by the hirer for any reason, 
other than those exceptional circumstances under which 
the hirer has no control and is not at fault and the tug 
released within one hour from the time of reporting for 
assigned work.   
 
 
₹2,449.14  
 
 
USD 
58.65 
 
(ii). In the case of the tug being delayed by the hirer beyond 
one hour from the time the tug has reported for work due to 
reasons other than exceptional circumstances under which 
the hirer has no control and is not at fault.    
(a). For first one hour.  ₹4,898.16 USD 
117.08 
(b). For every additional hour or part thereof.  ₹2,508.83 USD 
59.73 
5. Cancellation charges in respect of floating craft 
mentioned in Sl. No.3 above, whose services have been 
requisitioned but not utilised or delayed. If cancellation was 
done without giving 3 hours Notice.   
 
  
(i). Launch (Flat Rate).  ₹400.216 USD 
9.557 
(ii). In respect of Tug (Flat Rate).  
₹801.63 USD 
244.80 
 
  * as and when applicable.  
 
Notes: 
  
(1). The hire charges for tug, launches and mooring boat prescribed above 
includes cost of service of crew.  
 
(2). Minimum hours for hire of Tug / launches at Sr. No. I and II above shall be    
hrs.  
 
- 25 - 
 
(3). In case Tugs / Launches / floating crafts have left the station, then the rate 
prescribed above shall be levied.  
 
(4). No cancellation charges shall be levied if the booking for tugs/ Launches/ 
floating crafts is cancelled for the reasons attributable to port.  
 
(5). Hire charges of tug prescribed above shall be applicable for tug services 
availed for double banking of vessel.   
 
(6).     Tug service shall be provided as part of the pilotage service (without any        
           charge) on requisition from Master/Owners, Agents of vessels for purposes                  
           of berthing, un-berthing, shifting, mooring, re-mooring and all connected   
           works. Tug service provided as part of shifting service shall also be without    
           any charge. 
 
(7)       The charges for Mooring launches shall not be levied if it is on Port   
            account . 
 
 
2.2.6. Charges for Warping of vessel  
 
Sl. 
No. Description Unit Coastal 
(`) Foreign 
(US$) 
1. Charges for Warping of vessel for 
their convenience Per occasion * * 
  * as and when applicable.  
 
 
Notes: 
 
(1). If the warping is required for convenience of another vessel, the warping 
charges shall be payable by the vessel for whose convenience the warping 
is done. 
  
(2). No charges will be levied if warping is done for Port convenience. 
 
(3). If tug is requisitioned for warping of vessel for their convenience, tug hire 
charges shall be levied in addition to warping charges prescribed above. 
 
2.2.7. Schedule of Miscellaneous charges  
 
 
2.2.7.1. Charges for detention of Master Pilot / Pilots: 
 
If the vessel is not able to move within 30 minutes of Master Pilot /  Pilot 
boarding, then the detention charges shall apply from the time the Pilot 
boards the vessel.  
 
Sr. 
No. Particulars Unit Coastal 
(in `) Foreign- going 
(in US $) 
1. Pilot Detention charges  Per hour or part thereof * * 
- 26 - 
 
* as and when applicable.  
Notes:  
 
(1). If an outward bound vessel carries away a Pilot outside the port limits due 
to the bad weather, compensation at US$ _____ per day in case of foreign-
going vessels and `______ per day in case of coastal vessel shall be 
payable by the vessel till the Pilot reports back for duty at the Port. In 
addition, the boarding and lodging expenses of the Pilot on board the ship 
and the cost of sending him back to the Port shall be payable by the 
Vessel.  
       
(2). The time period attributable to the Port shall not be reckoned with for the 
calculation of Pilot Detention Charges.  
 
2.2.7.1.(a)  Detention charges of the vessels : 
 
Sl.No. Description  Foreign 
going 
vessel 
(in US $) Coastal 
Vessel         
(in ₹) 
(i). For cancellation of a requisition for the services of a 
Pilot with less than 2 hours notice for pilotage 
between 0600 hours to 1800 hours or with less 
than 6 hours notice for pilotage between 1800 
hours and 0600 hours  
USD 
123.32 
 ₹3,296.22  
(ii). For detention of Pilot by a Steamer for more than 
30 minutes beyond the time for which the 
requisition was made   
 (a) For 1st hour or part thereof                 USD 61.67 ₹1,647.45  
 (b) For every subsequent hour or part thereof                                USD 51.38 ₹1,372.68  
 
Note:  
In case where a Pilot boards a ship/Steamer but has to return on being  informed that this 
services are not required, cancellation charges specified in sub-item (i) above shall be 
levied.  If a Pilot is made to wait for more than 30 minutes after boarding the vessel 
before being informed that his services are not required, charges specified in sub-item (ii) 
above shall be levied in addition to cancellation charges . 
 
2.2.7.2. Pilot Attendance Charges: 
 
Sr. 
No. Description Unit Coastal 
(in `) Foreign- 
going 
(in US $) 
1. Attendance of Pilot at the request of the Master / 
the Agent / by the Ports Authorized Official for 
work other than piloting / shifting operations    Per hour 
or part 
thereof * * 
 
* as and when applicable. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 27 - 
 
 
2.2.7.3. Pilot Cancellation charges 
 
In case of Pilots, whose services have been requisitioned for any 
movement but not utilized, fees as given below shall be levied. 
 
Sr. 
No. Description Unit Coastal 
 (in `) Foreign- 
going  
(in US $) 
 1 Cancellation received ____ hrs. before Pilot 
booked time Per 
cancellation  * * 
 2 Cancellation received less than 2 hrs. before 
Pilot booked time Per 
cancellation  * * 
 3 Cancellation received after Pilot boarding (In 
addition to the detention charges as 
applicable)  Per 
cancellation  * * 
 
* as and when applicable. 
 
     
Note:  
   
The cancellation charges shall not be levied if a booking for attendance of pilot is 
cancelled for reasons attributable to the Port.   
  
 
 
2.3.1. Schedule of Berth Hire Charges for vessels berthing for cargo 
operations 
 
Sl. 
No. Description  Rate per GRT per hour or part 
thereof. 
Coastal vessel (in 
Rs.) Foreign going 
Vessel (in 
US$/cents) 
1. POL including Crude oil vessels/ tankers  Rs.0.10861 subject to 
a minimum of ₹216.52 
per hour USD 0.004019 
subject to a 
minimum of 
USD 8.10 per 
hour 
2. Other liquid vessels/ tankers  Rs.0.10861 subject to 
a minimum of ₹216.52 
per hour USD 0.004019 
subject to a 
minimum of 
USD 8.10 per 
hour 
3. LNG/ LPG vessels/ tankers  Rs.0.10861 subject to 
a minimum of ₹216.52 
per hour USD 0.004019 
subject to a 
minimum of 
USD 8.10 per 
hour 
4. Dry Bulk vessels  Rs. 0.07602 subject to 
a minimum of ₹262.83 
per hour USD 0.002824 
subject to a 
minimum of 
USD 9.82 per 
hour 
5. Container vessels  Rs. 0.07602 subject to 
a minimum of ₹262.83 USD 0.002824 
subject to a 
- 28 - 
 
per hour minimum of 
USD 9.82 per 
hour 
6. RoRo/ RoPax vessels  Rs. 0.07602 subject to 
a minimum of ₹262.83 
per hour USD 0.002824 
subject to a 
minimum of 
USD 9.82 per 
hour 
7. General cargo vessels (including break 
bulk, ODC, Project cargo, multi cargo 
etc) Rs. 0.07602 subject to 
a minimum of ₹262.83 
per hour USD 0.002824 
subject to a 
minimum of 
USD 9.82 per 
hour 
8. Passengers Vessels.  ** ** 
9. Vessels carrying hazardous cargo/ 
chemicals  Rs.0.10861 subject to 
a minimum of ₹216.52 
per hour USD 0.004019 
subject to a 
minimum of 
USD 8.10 per 
hour 
10. Other cargo vessels  Rs. 0.07602 subject to 
a minimum of ₹262.83 
per hour USD 0.002824 
subject to a 
minimum of 
USD 9.82 per 
hour 
11. Boats, barges and craft  
₹136.063 per 
vessel /hour  USD 5.0937 
Per 
vessel/hour 
 
12. Double banking In respect of a vessel which is double banked with another vessel 
occupying a berth, it will be charged 50% of the applicable berth hire charges.  
13. The minimum berth hire shall be US$ *** for foreign vessels and `***for coastal 
vessels irrespective of type of vessel *. 
 
* as and when applicable. 
** Guided by separate notification of rates from time to time. 
***Minimum rate respective category as per applicability. 
 
 Rate per Vessel per Hour  
(ii). Sailing vessels, Barges, 
Tugs (Vessels other than 
steamer and Tankers) ₹136.063 per vessel / 
hour USD 5.0937 
Per vessel/hour 
 
(iii). Fishing vessels/service 
boat ₹21.786 per 
vessel/hour USD 0.8146 
Per vessel/hour 
 
(iv). Wooden rowing boat with 
or without auxiliary engines 10.698 per vessel 
/hour USD 0.3909 
Per vessel/hour 
 
(v). Double banking (Daughter 
vessel) Whenever a vessel is double banked with other 
vessel occupying a berth, it will be charged 50% 
of the berth hire specified above. 
(vi). Bunker Barge ₹136.063 per vessel 
/hour USD 5.0937 
Per vessel/hour 
 
(vii). Vessels calling 
exclusively for bunkering at 
berth Rs.0.10861 subject to 
a minimum of ₹216.52 
per hour USD 0.0040 subject to 
a minimum of USD 
8.10 per hour 
- 29 - 
 
Notes:  
 
General Notes relating to Berth hire: 
 
(1). The time for the purpose of levy of berth hire shall be reckoned with from 
the time the vessel occupies the berth from all fast till all lines cast off. 
 
(2). (i). Berth hire shall start after the time vessel occupies the berth. 
 
 (ii). Berth hire shall stop 4 hours after the time of vessel signaling its 
readiness to sail. The time limit of 4 hrs prescribed for cessation of 
berth hire shall exclude the ship’s waiting time for want of favorable 
tidal condition or on account of inclement weather or due to absence 
of night navigation facilities.  
 
(iii). The Master/ Agent of the vessel shall signal readiness to sail only in 
accordance with favorable tidal and weather condition.  
 
(iv).  The pilot requisition submitted by the agents will be treated as the 
signal for the above clauses. The time, draft, etc. mentioned in the 
pilot requisition shall be considered for the applicability of false 
signal charges   
 
(v). There shall be penal berth hire equal to 24 hrs. berth hire charge for 
a false signal.  
 
“False signal” would be when a ship signals readiness and asks for 
a pilot in anticipation even when she is not ready for un berthing due 
to engine not being ready or cargo operation not completed or such 
other reasons attributable to the vessel. This excludes the signaling 
readiness when a ship is not able to sail due to unfavorable tide, 
lack of night navigation or adverse weather conditions”. 
 
(3).   Berthing seniority will generally be as per the Berthing policy of the Port.  
 
(4). Priority/ Ousting Priority Charges in addition to Normal Berth Hire Charges 
as stated below or as and when changed by the Govt. or any other 
competent authority, will be applicable:  
 
(a). For providing “ Priority Berthing ” to any vessel, a fee equivalent to 
75% of the Berth Hire charges calculated for the total period of 
actual stay at the berth(s) subject to a minimum of Berth Hire 
charges for 24 hours shall be levied. 
 
(b). For providing “ Ousting Priority ” to any vessel, a fee equivalent to  
100% of the Berth Hire charges calculated for the total period of 
actual stay at the berth subject to a minimum of Berth Hire charges 
for 24 hours shall be levied. In addition, pilotage/ shifting charges for 
‘shifting out’ and ‘shifting in’ of the vessel shifted from berth shall be 
levied on the vessel enjoying ousting priority.  
- 30 - 
 
 
(c). The fee for providing priority / ousting priority as mentioned above 
shall not be charged for the following categories:  
 
(i). Vessels carrying cargo on account of Ministry of Defense.  
 
(ii). Defense vessels coming on goodwill visits. 
 
(iii). Vessels hired for the purpose of Antarctica expedition by 
Department of Ocean Development. 
 
(iv). Any other vessel for which special exemption has been 
granted by the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways. 
 
(v). Coastal vessels which will be accorded priority berthing. 
  
(vi). For vessels berthed as per Port’s berthing policy without 
availing any specific priority. 
 
(d). In case, if a vessel is having priority, but by virtue if the same vessel 
is senior, no Priority charges will be collected. 
  
(5). No Berth Hire will be charged for the period when the vessels idle at the 
Port’s berths when operations cannot take place due to breakdown of the 
port equipment or power failure or any other reasons attributable to Port. 
This provision will, however, not apply in the case of vessels idling at berths 
operated by the private operators licensed by the Port due to reasons not 
attributable to Port. 
 
   (6).    (i).  The vessel for whose convenience an adjacent berth(s) is (are) kept 
vacant due to the nature of cargo to be handled at that particular 
berth shall be charged berth hire charges applicable to the berths 
kept vacant in addition to berth hire charge  for the berth occupied 
by the vessel.  
 (ii). Berth Hire charges shall be levied for Coast Guard/ Naval and other 
Government Vessels occupying the berth or berthed alongside the 
wharf/diaphragm wall as applicable to other vessels . 
 
(7).     Any vessel which continues to occupy any berth after the expiry of time 
given by the port, penal charges for unauthorized occupation of berths; 
without prejudice to any other course of action in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of law, rules and regulations, berth hire charges for the 
unauthorized occupation of a berth in the Port shall be levied at the 
following rates after giving 3 hours advance intimation or notice in writing to 
the agents/owner of the vessels concerned. In addition penal Charges shall 
be applicable only for the overstay period of the vessel from time/date of 
issue of the notice. 
 
 
  
- 31 - 
 
2.3.2.  Schedule of Berth Hire Charges for non cargo vessels/ operations  
 
For all vessels berthing at berths for other than cargo operations, the 
berth hire charges shall be recovered as under: 
 
Sr. 
No. Particulars  Rate 
1. Upto --- days of occupation of berth ____**___ % of berth hire 
charges of Non-cargo vessels 
2. From 4th day to 5th day of occupation 
of berth ____**___ % of berth hire 
charges of Non-cargo vessels 
3. After 5th day of occupation of berth _____**__ % of berth hire 
charges of Non-cargo vessels 
 
** As per 2.3.1.  
 
2.3.3. Penal berth hire charges for Overstayal of vessel  
 
(1). Vessel should be ready for sailing in all respects within ___ hrs of 
completion of cargo operations. Penal berth hire equivalent as given 
below shall be levied in addition  to the berth hire charge for the 
period of overstayal of vessel for occupancy of the berth after three  
hrs of completion of cargo operations.  
 
Sr. 
No. Particulars % of Berth Hire 
1. Upto 72 hrs of Overstayal at 
Berth  300 % of applicable berth hire 
charges 
2. From 72 hrs to 144 hrs of 
Overstayal at Berth 400 % of applicable berth hire 
charges 
3. From 144 hrs to 216 hrs of 
Overstayal at Berth 500 % of applicable berth hire 
charges 
4. After 216 hrs  of Overstayal at 
Berth 600 % of applicable berth hire 
charges 
 
2.3.4. Guidelines on priority berthing of coastal vessels  
 
 The following are the Guidelines on priority berthing of coastal vessels at 
Major Ports issued by the Ministry of Shipping vide letter No.PT-
11033/51/2014-PT dated 4 September 2014:  
 
(a).  “Coastal vessels” is defined as any vessel exclusively employed in 
trading between any port or place in India to any other port or place 
in India having a valid coastal license issued by the Directorate 
General of Shipping/ Competent Authority.  
 
(b).  Major ports shall accord priority berthing, at least on one berth, to 
dry bulk/ general cargo coastal vessels to enable shippers to 
transport goods from one port in India to another port in India 
irrespective of origin and final destination of the cargo. This would be 
in addition to dedicated berth, for handling of Coastal Thermal Coal 
already existing in Major Ports, if any.  
- 32 - 
 
 
(c).  All Major Ports shall accord priority berthing through specific window 
to coastal container vessels keeping in view the concession 
agreements and existing allotment of window berthing at the private 
terminals and availability of container berths operated by the ports.  
 
(d).  In respect of POL/ Liquid cargo tankers, existing practices regarding 
such priorities as prevalent in various ports may continue.  
 
(e).  Coastal vessels which are be accorded priority berthing shall not be 
liable to pay priority berthing charges.  
 
(f).  There will be no restrictions on berthing of coastal vessel, in addition 
to the coastal vessel berthed on priority as above, if the same is 
eligible under normal berthing policy of the port.  
 
(g).  A coastal vessel shall be liable to pay port charges on coastal rates 
notwithstanding whether it was berthed on priority or otherwise.  
 
(h).  Ports should explore the possibilities of earmarking exclusive berth, 
storage areas and gates for coastal cargo outside the custom 
bonded area of the Ports to further facilitate movement of coastal 
cargoes.  
 
(i).  Major Port shall clearly work out the time limit within which a coastal 
vessel would be berthed in a particular port. This time limit may differ 
depending on the cargo and berth. Each Major Port should carry out 
a detailed exercise and issue a trade notice clearly indicating the 
upper time limit within which a coastal vessel would be given a berth 
in the port. As regards priority berthing through a specific window to 
coastal container vessels, Major Ports should have a detailed 
discussion with the PPP operator and publish the specific window for 
coastal container vessels. The above mentioned exercise and 
publication should be completed within 30 days from the date of 
issue of these guidelines. 
 
 
2.3.5. Norms for cargo handling and penalty for non-achievement of 
performance norms/ incentive for achievement of performance norms. 
 
 
2.3.5.1.Performance Norms (PPP basis) 
 
Sl. 
No Cargo Performance norms  
per ship day in MT 
(For containers in moves per hrs.) 
1. Dry Bulk Cargo : ** 
   
   
2. Liquid:  ** 
- 33 - 
 
   
   
3. Break Bulk Cargo:  ** 
   
   
4.  Container  ** 
   
5. Other cargo not specified above.  ** 
 
** as per berthing policy notified from time to time. 
 
 
2.3.5.2.Penalty for non-achievement/ incentive for achievement of the    
 prescribed performance norms * 
 
Sr. 
No. Particulars  Unit Penalty / 
Incentive 
1 If the ship stays upto 5% (higher or 
lower) of the stipulated time for that 
commodity as specified in 
productivity norms.  ** 
2 Berth stay is more than 5% beyond 
the stipulated time for that 
commodity as specified in 
productivity norms. per hour or part thereof 
for every additional hour 
beyond 5%. Penalty ** 
3 Berth stay is 5% lower than the 
stipulated time for that commodity 
as specified in productivity norms. per hour or part thereof 
for every hour of saving 
in berth time beyond 5% Incentive ** 
 
** as per berthing policy notified from time to time. 
 
Notes:  
 
(1). The penalty provisions will be levied on Stevedores/ Shore handling agents 
as applicable, with the provision that the amount can be claimed by the 
Stevedores/Shore handling agents from the cargo interests (Importer/ 
Exporter) or vessel owners through their agents, depending on the reasons 
thereof. Same way, incentive will be paid to Stevedores/ Shore handling 
agents as applicable. In the case of liquid cargo, the penal berth hire 
charges / incentive will be levied on the importer/ exporter/vessel agent. 
 
(2). Calculation of stipulated time of vessel w.r.t. performance norms of 
commodity: 
 
The stipulated time of stay of vessel shall be calculated based on the total 
cargo discharged/ loaded from the vessel during the stay at berth and the 
performance norm prescribed for the commodity.  
[For example, a vessel carrying 59,830 tonnes of coking coal, the stipulated 
time of stay of vessel will be 103 hours i.e. 59830 tonnes ÷ 14000 tonnes 
per day x 24 hours = 102.56 hrs = 103 hours.] 
 
- 34 - 
 
For vessel handling multiple cargo, the said stipulated time of stay of vessel 
needs to be calculated w.r.t. performance norms prescribed for each of the 
cargo and aggregated for comparison with actual stay of vessel. 
 
(3). The period for which the vessel operation is affected due to the following 
limited port-related or weather- related issues will be deducted from the 
actual time of stay of vessel at berth for arriving the incentive/ penalty for 
handling Dry and Break Bulk cargo at conventional berths: 
 
(a). Break down/ non-availability of cranes to be provided by Port at 
berth. 
(b). Rain and inclement weather as indicated in the Statement of Facts 
(SOF) 
(c). Shifting of ships between berths on account of port. Port is required 
to maintain a record of a historical data of the frequency of such 
cases. 
(d). Any delays in sailing post vessel readiness to sail on account of 
Port. i.e. Pilot/ tug unavailability, and tidal conditions. 
(e). Draft surveys within the prescribed norms for ships. As a guideline, 
maximum 30 mins per party for interim draft survey should be 
allowed.  
(f). The time lost due to stoppage of work for any reasons other than the 
above (a). to (e). to be excluded for calculation of performance 
norms, only with the approval of the Board. 
 
(4). Where the vessel is not achieving the prescribed productivity norms, port 
reserve the right to shift the vessel to anchorage at the risk and cost of the 
ship in addition to levy of penalty charges, if any, at the above prescribed 
rate.  
 
(5). Port may review the productivity norms on quarterly basis and revise the 
same, if required, based on local conditions and past performance etc. as 
stipulated in the Berthing Policy for Dry Bulk Cargo for Major Ports, 2016, 
issued by Ministry. 
 
(6). While calculating the performance of the vessel, factors beyond the control 
of the cargo handler like cyclone, heavy rain, labour unrest, etc. will be 
treated as “dies-non” 
 
2.4.  Schedule of charges for Stayal at Mooring Points:  
  
Sr. 
No. Particulars  Rate per GRT per 1 hour or part there of 
Coastal vessel (in `) Foreign-going vessel (in US $)  
1. * * * 
2. * * * 
* as and when applicable. 
2.5.1. Anchorage Charges for vessels calling port for cargo operations:  
 
*refer 2.5.2 as it consolidated below. 
 
- 35 - 
 
 
2.5.2. Anchorage Charges for vessels not calling for cargo operation at Port
  
Sl. 
No. Particulars  Rate per hour or part thereof per 
GRT 
  Coastal Foreign 
1. Pre-berthing anchorage toall 
vessels Loading/Unloading cargo at 
the port Free  Free 
2. Vessels stay at anchorage after 
sailing out from berth  ₹ 0.021 subject to 
minimum of Rs 
43.44/per hour USD 0.00075 
cents subject to 
minimum of USD 
1.52 per hour 
3. Vessels other than mentioned 
above ₹ 0.021 subject to 
minimum of Rs 
43.44/per hour USD 0.00075 
cents subject to 
minimum of USD 
1.52 per hour 
4 Vessels exclusively called to 
anchorage for bunkering ₹ 0.0075 subject to 
minimum of Rs 
26.06/per hour USD 0.00027 
cents subject to 
minimum of    
USD 0.981 per 
hour 
        
 
Notes to schedule no. 2.5.1 and 2.5.2 :  
 
(1). The anchorage fees shall be levied from the time a vessel drops the 
anchor till the time it anchors away.  
 
(2). In the event of a vessel which had stayed at an anchorage, takes berth or 
enters a dock and returns thereafter either to the same anchorage or to 
another anchorage, then the number of hours the vessel was away from 
the anchorage will be excluded, but the period of occupation except for 
such exclusion will be treated as a continuous period for computing the 
Anchorage Fees.  
 
(3). Port can exempt vessels from paying anchorage charges in exceptional 
circumstances including but not limited to lapses on part of the Port. Any 
waiver of anchorage charges will require approval from Chairman of the 
Port or an equivalent authority.  
 
(4). No anchorage fees will be charged to the vessel classified as Indian 
Naval Vessels and Coast Guard Vessels.  
 
(5). No Anchorage Fees will be charged to the vessel/ship anchored outside 
the port limits notified by the Central Government.   
 
(6). For bunkering operations: 
           (i)No Anchorage charges shall be charged for bunker barge. 
 
(7)       No anchorage charges shall be levied for dredger deployed for dredging   
            activity in the port 
- 36 - 
 
 
(8)        No anchorage charges for any tugs which is used for port operations. 
 
(9)        Sailing out means ATD from the berth 
 
Note: 
Whenever vessel shifts to roads/ anchorage and goes to another berth for up-
topping or lightening, the vessel stayal at roads/ anchorage shall be charged the 
rates from 2nd slab onwards. In other words, the free anchorage in the first slab 
will not be applicable 
 
 
 
2.5.3. Consolidated charges for transhipment/ lighterage/ Ship to Ship (STS) 
at anchorage (crude oil, POL and dry bulk).   
 
Sl. 
No. Description Unit Coastal 
Rate [in 
`] Foreign 
Rate 
(US$) 
1. Consolidated Charges for 
Transhipment/ lighterage/ STS 
Operation of Crude Oil  from 
mother vessel. Per GRT per each 
call of mother 
vessel * * 
2. Consolidated Charges for 
Transhipment/ lighterage/STS 
Operations of POL Product  
from mother vessel. Per GRT per each 
call of mother 
vessel * * 
3. 
 Consolidated Charges for 
Transhipment/ lighterage/STS 
Operations of Dry bulk  from 
mother vessel. Per GRT per each 
call of mother 
vessel * * 
4. Wharfage charges on Cargo 
transhipped/ lighterage/STS to 
daughter tanker / vessel and 
carried to other ports without 
discharging at this Port. Per MT 
 * * 
5. Daughter tanker / vessel shall pay charges as per notified rates for 
discharging / loading cargo at port berth, mooring etc. 
6. For any other specific services such as supply of water, launches, etc., 
charges shall be levied as applicable. 
* as and when applicable. 
 
Notes:  
 
(1). Consolidated Charges shall include Port dues, pilotage fee, anchorage 
charges and Transhipment/ lighterage/ STS charges. 
 
(2). (a). In case, a Mother vessel tranships/ lighten part cargo to daughter 
tanker / vessel to carry to other ports and the mother vessel thereafter 
discharges part cargo in the Port, the Mother vessel shall pay Port 
dues, Pilotage fees and Berth hire charges at notified rates prescribed 
in the Scale of Rates instead of consolidated charges. 
 
(b). In such case, the element of Transhipment/ lighterage/ STS charges of 
- 37 - 
 
`_____/- per ____(unit of levy) is also payable by mother vessel for the 
quantity transhipped/ lightened/ STS to daughter vessel. 
 
2.6. Tariff at Single Point Mooring (SPM)/ Single Buoy Mooring (SBM):  
 
Sl. 
No. Particulars Unit Coastal in 
(Rs.) Foreign in 
US $ Frequency of 
levy 
 
1. Port dues  Per GRT  6.6576 
 0.4110 
 Each entry 
2. Pilotage Per GRT 11.84 0.3107  
Pilotage per entry subject 
to a minimum of ____ 
US$ ---- for foreign going 
and ` ____ lakhs for 
coastal Per GRT  *  * One time 
payment for one 
inward and one 
outward 
movement 
3. Pilot Attendance  Per hour or 
part thereof * * Per stay at SPM 
4. Mooring charges For each 
Operation * * One time for each 
operation 
5. Unmooring charges For each 
Operation * * One time for each 
operation 
6. Tug charges subject to 
minimum of 2 hours Per hour or 
part thereof Refer point 
7 Refer point 
7 Per occasion 
7. Tug Hire charges for 
SPM Operations   
₹58,300.13  1,529.18  Rate per Tug 
hour or part 
thereof 
9. SBM/SPM charges  Per GRT per 
hour or part 
thereof  ** ** For stay at 
anchorage/ SBM 
 
* as and when applicable. 
** As per applicability.  
 
Note  
(1). Shifting charges will be collected for vessels shifted from/ to SPM.  
(2). For calculation of Tug hire charges, the time is to be reckoned from 
mooring to unmooring at SPM. 
 
 
2.7.1. Charges for Cruise vessel   
 
Sl. 
No. Particulars Unit Domestic Cruise 
vessel (In `) Foreign Cruise 
vessel (In US$) 
1. Cruise tariff    
(a). For first 12 hours  Per GRT or 
part thereof ** ** 
(b). For each 
additional hour or part 
thereof exceeding 12 
hours  Per GRT or 
part thereof ** ** 
2. For Passenger Per passenger **  ** 
 
** Guided by separate notification of rates from time to time. 
 
- 38 - 
 
Note: 
The cruise tariff prescribed above is consolidated charge which includes port 
dues, pilotage and berth hire. 
 
2.7.2. Volume discount to Cruise vessel ** 
 
Sl. No. Number of calls per year  Rebate in Cruise tariff  
1. Upto 10 calls Nil 
2. From 11 to 35 calls 10% 
3. From 36 to 70 calls 15% 
4. Above 70 calls 20% 
 
** Guided by separate notification of rates from time to time. 
                 
 
2.7.3. Miscellaneous service charges for the use of tug:  
  
Description  Amount ( ₹) 
Charges per person per voyage while tug on SPM duty 5,973.38/-  
 
Note: Permission will be provided considering operational requirements . 
 
 
2.7.4. Mandatory requirement for the Port Reception Facility (PRF): * 
 
*As per the Trade Notice issued from time to time 
 
 
- 39 - 
 
CHAPTER- III 
 
CARGO RELATED CHARGES 
3.1. Wharfage  
 
3.1.1. Wharfage on cargo: 
 
Sr. No. Particulars of commodities Unit Coastal Rates 
(In `) Foreign rates (In 
`) 
(A) Liquid (in bulk)    
I POL Products    
 (a) Motor spirit/Motor Gasoline (Petrol) to be 
beld with Ethanol M.T. 96.60 96.60 
 (b) Superior Kerosene Oil M .T. 96.60 96.60 
 (c) Diesel Oil/ HSD /HFHSD/Auto Motive 
Diesel Fuel/Light Diesel Oil (LDO) M.T. 96.60 96.60 
 (d) Crude Oil M .T. 96.60 96.60 
 (e) Naphtha M .T. 96.60 96.60 
 (f) Furnace Oil M .T. 96.60 96.60 
 (g) Very Low Sulphur Fuel Oil(VLSFO)/ 
NFO/Fuel oil/Heavy  Fuel Oil/Marine Fuel 
oil(MFO) M.T. 96.60 96.60 
 (h) Grease M .T. 88.56 88.56 
 (i) Asphalt/ coaltar/ bitumen/Liquid Coal Pitch 
Tar M.T. 88.56 88.56 
 (j) Crude oil through Single Point Mooring 
(SPM) M.T. 34.89 34.90 
 k) Slop/ Sludge Oil/ Waste Oil/ gas oil/ 
Reformate M.T. 96.60 96.60 
 (l)Aviation Fuel M .T. 96.60 96.60 
 (m)Vacuum Gas Oil(VGO) M .T. 96.60 96.60 
 (n)JET A1 M .T. 96.60 96.60 
 (o) Others M .T. 96.60 96.60 
II Chemical & Acids    
 (a) Ammonia Liquid or Gas M .T. 57.69 96.60 
 (b) Phosphoric Acid and Styrene Monomer M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (c) Sulphuric Acid M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (d) Orthoxylence M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (e)  Ethylene Dichloride (E.D.C.) M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (f) Cyclohexanone M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (g) Cumene M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 h) Methanol M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (i) Phenol M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (j) Caustic Soda Dye M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (k) Acids/ Acrylic Acid/ Chemicals of all kinds 
in crystals liquids not specified above M.T. 49.65 81.86 
 (l)Ethylhexyl acrylate 
 M.T. 49.65 81.86 
 (m) Butyl Acrylate M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (n)2-ethyl Acrylate M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (o)Liquid Crude Glycerin M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (p) Benzene M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (q) Mixed Xylene M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (r) Para Xylene M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (s) Soda Ash M .T. 53.66 88.56 
 (t) Sulphur M .T. 49.65 81.86 
- 40 - 
 
 (u) Poly PropeleneGranuales M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (v) Purified Terephthalic Acid (PTA) M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (w) Poly Ethylene Terephthalate (PET) M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (x) Mono Ethylene Glycol (MEG) M .T. 49.65 81.86 
III Renewable Resources     
 a)Bio Diesel /Bio Fuel/ UCOME FAME M .T. 96.57 96.60 
IV Gases M.T.   
 a)LPG/LNG or any  gas in any other form M .T. 147.61 245.57 
V Edible Oil and other liquids    
 a) Palm Oil, vegetable oil etc./ /Palm Acid 
Oil/Refined Bleached Deodorized Palm 
Oil(RBDPO),Crude sunflower oil seed oil 
(CSFO),Crude palm oil (CPO), Refined Palm 
oil mill effluents (POME), palm acid oil , Food 
waste oil (FWO), Used cooking oil (UCO) 
,RBD Palm Olein, Soya Bean Oil M.T. 41.59 68.45 
 b) Cashew shell liquid MT 30.47 52.05 
(B) Dry Cargoes (Bulk)     
I Food Grains, Food Products, oil seeds    
 a) Rice,Wheat, Maize, Pulses  M.T. 30.47 52.04 
 b) Sugar, Sugarcandy or Cube M.T.  30.47 52.04 
 c) Oil seeds M.T  41.60 68.45 
 d) Molasses M.T  41.60 68.45 
 e) Raw cashew nuts M.T  26.65 45.71 
 f) Cashew kernels M.T  40.62 68.55 
 g) Rice Bran M.T  22.86 39.35 
 h) Tapioca chips, flour starch, waste & tamarind 
Seed powder in bags M.T 27.91 46.97 
 i) Onion M.T  22.86 39.35 
 j)Coir and coir products M.T  43.16 71.09 
 k)Oil cakes and fodder of all kinds M.T  22.86 39.35 
 l) Salt M.T  5.09 8.89 
II Fertilizer& Raw Materials     
 a) MOP,  SOP, Urea ,DAP, NPK, CAN, 
Ammonia Sulphate, MAP/SAP/UAP and any 
other Finished fertilizer/Polysulphate M.T 26.65 45.71 
 b) Sulphate/ Rock phosphate M.T  30.47 52.04 
III Metals, Ores& Minerals     
 (a) Iron and steel scraps and drops/scraps M .T. 30.47 52.04 
 (b) Pig iron/ Sponge iron/ Hot rolled coils M .T. 39.35 64.75 
 (c) Alloy Steel , Stainless Steel and Metals not 
otherwise specified - Ingots and products M.T. 106.63 177.72 
 (d) Copper concentrate M .T. 30.47 52.04 
 (e) Copper cathode M .T. 96.48 161.20 
 (f) Copper wire, rods, cables, bars blocks M .T. 77.44 129.47 
 (g) Limestone M .T. 26.65 45.71 
 (h) Aluminium and Tin  M.T. 85.06 142.18 
 (i) Iron Ore Pellets other than KIOCL M .T. 45.71 45.71 
 (j) Iron Ore Fines/Lumps  M .T. 43.16 43.16 
 (k)  Slag M .T. 26.65 43.16 
 (l) Bauxite M .T. 26.65 45.71 
 (m) Manganese ore M .T. 22.86 39.35 
 (n) Perlite ore M .T. 22.86 39.35 
 (o) Chromite ore M .T. 22.86 39.35 
 (p) Bentonate& ballclay sand/ clay of any Class M .T. 15.24 25.39 
 (q) Zinc concentrate M .T. 68.55 114.23 
- 41 - 
 
 (r) Rock Sand M .T. 21.59 35.54 
 (s) Titaniferous Magnetite Ore M .T. 45.70 45.70 
 (t)Mill Scale M .T. 36.82 60.92 
 (u) Clay, chalk M .T. 30.47 50.76 
 (v)Granite in any form except Granite Boulder M .T. 34.27 58.39 
 (w) Ferro silicon M .T. 30.47 52.05 
 (x)any other ore in bulk M .T. 26.65 45.71 
IV Coal and Coke in bulk    
 (a) Thermal Coal (other than UPCL) M .T. 31.73 31.73 
 (b) Coal (other than Thermal Coal) and coke M .T. 19.02 31.73 
 (c) Pet Coke (in bulk) M .T. 55.02 55.02 
V Construction Materials/ Cement    
 (a) upto 3.00 lakh tonnes per annum M .T. 49.65 81.86 
 (b) Above 3.00 lakhs tonnes and upto 4.00 lakhs 
Tonnes per annum M.T. 41.60 68.45 
 (c) Above 4.00 lakh tonnes per annum M .T. 32.20 55.02 
 (d)Gypsum/ Clinker M .T. 22.86 39.35 
 (e) Dolomite M .T. 22.86 39.35 
 (f) Riversand,Metal, Sand,Granule, 
Jelly,Marble,ManufacturedSand(M.Sand) M.T. 15.24 25.40 
 (g) fly ash in bulk M .T. 30.47 50.76 
  (h) Granite boulders M .T. 30.47 50.76 
  (i) Tetra Pod M .T. 30.47 50.76 
VI Timber & Forest Products      
 (a) Wood pulp and wood chips  M.T. 30.47 50.76 
 (b) Papers of all kinds including waste 
papers M.T. 30.47 50.76 
(C) Break Bulk and General cargo 
other than Containers     
 a) Spices (cardamom, ginger, turmeric, 
coriander seed, pepper, chillies, etc.)  M.T. 40.62 67.27 
 b) Fish dried, fresh, salted preserved or frozen 
prawns, frog legs and lobsters preserved or 
frozen  M.T. 30.47 50.77 
 c) Yarn, cotton and wool raw, waste or 
manufactured staple fiber  C.B.M 35.55 58.44 
 d) Arecanuts, beedi leaves and beedies, coffee 
instant coffee essence or powder, magnasite 
illuminates mona zite bauxite rutile sand, sandal 
wood logs, and product, Tea, Coffee/ Coffee 
husk, tobacco  M.T. 39.35 66.02 
 e) Asphalt, Bitumen M .T. 64.75 106.63 
 f) Plant & Machinery (in Knock Down 
Conditions or otherwise) M.T. 106.01 177.12 
 g) Iron and Steel Plate s,Pipes, tubes,steel wire 
coils (irrespective of the weight of individual 
piece) M.T. 39.35 64.75 
 h)Over Dimensional Cargo M.T 728.65 1214.42 
 i) Galvanized Steel,Ingots,Tin plates, Lead 
material of all types M.T 63.47 106.63 
 j) Bagged cement/ sugar/ rawsugar/ all types of 
bagged cargo/Coal Tar Pitch in Jumbo 
Bags/Dried Raw Cashew Nuts in shell M.T 49.65 81.86 
 k)Timber of all kinds of logs including plywood  CBM 30.47 50.76 
 l) Pet Coke (in Break Bulk)  55.02 55.02 
 m)Defence stores equipments MT 100.29 167.55 
- 42 - 
 
 n) Unaccompanied personal effects MT 77.44 129.47 
 o)  Vehicles/Equipments Imported/Exported 
through the Port  Each Unit 2364.82 3940.13 
 (p) Vehicles/Equipments Imported/ Exported 
through the Port through Ro-Ro operation. Per 
Vehicle/ 
Equipment  2364.82 3940.13 
 (q) Vehicles/Equipments handled with loaded 
merchandise or cargoes through Ro-Ro 
operation Per 
Vehicle/ 
Equipment  393.50 1970.06 
 r) Baggages accompanying passengers or 
Seamen free and personnel baggages, Horses 
and carriages/ acco mpanying Military personnel 
moving on duty Embarking from vessels and the 
Animal meats for providing food for them. M.T. FREE FREE 
D) Pipeline Transfer Operation 
    
 (a)Pipeline Transfer Operation         
     Charges of POL Products M.T. 50.76 50.76 
 (b) Pipeline Transfer of Edible Oil    
    from Berth No.15 to Berth No.5. M.T. 21.14 21.14 
E) Unremunerated goods other 
than the above specified M.T. 30.47 50.76 
 
 
 
3.1.2.  Charges for shut out / back to town cargo 
 
Sr. 
No. Description  Rate 
1. Charges on Shut out cargo  ____*___ % of Wharfage charges in addition to 
applicable wharfage charge. 
2. Charges on Back to town 
cargo  ____*___ % of Wharfage charges in addition to 
applicable wharfage charge. 
 
* as and when applicable.  
 
Notes:   
 
(1). Shut out charges shall not to be levied on the following instances: 
 
(i). When a vessel is required to sail with shut outs for accommodating 
another vessel on port request. 
 
(ii). When cargo could not be loaded on board by port due to break 
down of cranes. 
 
(iii). When cargo could not be loaded on board due to bad weather 
conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 43 - 
 
3.1.3. Goods free of wharfage: * 
 
Sr. No. Description  
(a). Cargo consigned to or by the Port.  
(b). Bunkers for central and state government launches engaged in anti-
smuggling activities, Miscellaneous  Packing materials, ships’ dunnage, 
ships’ fittings fodder accompanying live stock and not manifested as 
cargo.  
(c). Packing materials, ships’ dunnage, ships’ fittings fodder accompanying 
live stock and not manifested as cargo 
(d). Postal articles, Diplomatic mail, bonafide crew’s luggage and personnel 
effects accompanying them, personnel baggage and military equipment 
accompanying military personnel moving on duty. 
(e). Sand ballast.  
(f). Bonafide passengers' and seamen's baggage and personal effects and 
accompanying them. 
(g). Bonafide ship’s fittings of the same vessel. 
(h). Cargo sweepings collected on shore. 
 
* as and when applicable.  
 
Notes for Schedule 3.1.1, 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 above:  
 
(1). “Wharfage” shall mean the basic dues recoverable on all cargo landed or 
shipped or transshipped within the port limits and approaches or passing 
through the port, whether porterage was provided by the port or not.  
 
(2). Assessment of cargo shall be done on the basis of the description of the 
cargo as given in the bill of entry/ coastal bill of lading in case of import 
cargo and shipping bill in the case of export cargo that best fits the item 
description covered under the schedule.   
 
(3). (a). For the purpose of calculating the dues the unit by weight shall be 
one metric tonne (MT) or 1,000 kilograms, the unit by volume 
measurement shall be 1 cubic metre .  
 
 (b). In calculating the gross weight or measurement by volume or 
capacity of any individual item, fractions upto 0.5 shall be taken as 
0.5 unit and fractions of 0.5 and above shall be treated as one unit, 
except where otherwise specified.   
  
(4).   Minimum Wharfage shall be payable for one Metric tonne.  
 
(5). Before classifying any cargo under unspecified category in the wharfage 
schedule, the relevant Customs classification shall be referred to find out 
whether the cargo can be classified under any of the specific categories 
mentioned in the wharfage schedule.   
 
(6).  Goods imported by DRDO will also be classified as “Defence stores” for 
purpose of wharfage collection.  
 
(7). “Defence stores” would include ‘Bombs, grenades, torpedoes, mines, 
- 44 - 
 
defence vehicles, missiles, missile tanks and similar munitions of war and 
parts thereof, cartridges and other ammunition and projectiles and parts 
thereof, including shot and cartridges wads coming under Arms, Ammunition, 
parts and accessories thereof but the reference to “parts thereof does not 
include radio or radar apparatus as per note no.2 of Chapter no. 93 of 
Customs Tariff of India.  
 
(8). Ad valorem wharfage on imports shall be calculated on CIF value; on the 
exports on FOB value; and on coastal cargo on value specified in the bill of 
coastal goods. Customs bills of entry/ shipping bill/ bill of coastal goods shall 
be the main documents for assessing the value of cargo for wharfage 
purpose and where it is not available, the value will be determined based on 
Bill of Lading/ invoice, etc.  
 
(9). Wharfage dues shall be collected at the rates specified in the schedule on 
the basis of: 
 
(a). Vessel’s draft survey certificate/ Vessel’s Manifested Quantity in 
case of dry bulk cargo;  
 
(b). Vessel’s ullage certificate quantity/ Vessel’s Manifested Quantity in 
case of liquid bulk;  
 
(c). Bill of Entry/ Bill of Lading/ shipping bill/ invoice/ packing list quantity 
in all other cases. 
 
(d). In case of coastal cargo, if Bill of Entry or Shipping Bill/ Mate’s 
receipt is not available, Port Authority shall decide the documents to 
be relied upon. 
  
           (e).     All goods intended for shipment shall be assessed on export    
                     application and wharfage shall be paid before the goods are shipped. 
 
 (f).     All goods landed within the limits of the Port of New Mangalore shall  
                    be assessed on import application and the wharfage shall be paid   
                    before the goods are delivered. 
 
           (g).    The wharfage dues shall be calculated on the total tonnage of each  
                     item of goods.  For this purpose, the gross and not the net tonnage  
                     of each package as specified in the relative invoice or other shipping  
                     document shall be taken, subject to fresh check by the Port if the  
                     circumstances so require.  In the absence of these documents or in  
                     the absence of the specification of gross tonnage therein the  
                     tonnage arrived at by actual test-check shall be taken as gross  
                     tonnage. 
 
             (h).   Where marks are indistinguishable and the cargo is landed in bulk or  
                      under such conditions that the tonnage is not readily ascertainable  
                     in that case; 
 
- 45 - 
 
            (a)if the cargo is landed at the Wharf, the tonnage shall be 
ascertained by taking the actual measurement and converting it at 
one cubic meter to a tonne, 
 
           (b)if the cargo is conveyed by craft from a vessel at the outer roads, 
the licenced carrying capacity of the craft shall be taken as the 
tonnage. 
 
          (i).    Before classifying any cargo as ‘unenumerated goods’ the relevant    
                   Customs classification shall be referred to find out whether the cargo   
                   can be classified under any of the specific categories mentioned in the   
                  Schedule given above . 
 
 
(10). The cargo should be evacuated from the wharf within *________(hours to 
be specified by the Port) hours from the completion of cargo handling 
operations of the vessel. Penal charges shall be levied on cargoes not 
removed from any wharf in the port after completion of cargo discharge 
from a vessel/ shipment to a vessel.  
 
Sl. No. Description Unit Rate (in `) 
1. First __ hours (indicative 5 hrs) -- * 
2. ___ to ___ hour per hour or part thereof * 
3. ____to ___ hour per hour or part thereof  * 
4. ____to ___ hour  per hour or part thereof  * 
5. _____ hour onwards per hour or part thereof  * 
           * as and when applicable.  
 
(a). Port reserves the right to shift the cargo at the cost of the 
receiver/shipper/shore handling agent/stevedoring agent, as 
applicable.  
 
(b). Penal charges shall not accrue for the period during which the port is 
not in a position to effect delivery of import cargo or shipment of 
export cargo when requested by the user. 
 
(11). Dangerous, explosive and inflammable goods landed at the Docks/ berths 
contrary to the IMDG and/ or the circulars issued by the Port or Competent 
Authority must be immediately removed by the Receivers/ Masters/ 
Owners/ Agents of the vessel to the space earmarked for such goods, 
failing which they shall be removed by the Port at their risk and cost of 
Receivers/ Masters/ Owners/ Agents and, in addition, a charge of `_____/- 
per package for foreign cargo and `____/- per package for coastal cargo 
will be levied.   
  
(12). Transhipment cargo, if discharged and re-loaded on to the same vessel/ 
another vessel, wharfage shall be leviable for each movement and 
demurrage on expiration of the free period as admissible to import cargo 
will be levied as per the demurrage schedule prescribed below.   
 
(13). (a). Vessels calling the Port, which are declared as cargo in the Sea 
- 46 - 
 
Arrival Manifest (IGM) or Sea Departure Manifest (EGM) for the 
purposes of Customs Act, 1962, shall not be treated as cargo and 
no wharfage shall be levied on such vessels, and only vessel 
related charges would be collected if the vessels come into the port 
on their own steam and sail out of the port limits on their own 
steam.  However, when loading or unloading of cargo/container 
takes place to/ from such vessel within the Port limits, 
cargo/container related charges including wharfage shall be 
applicable as per SOR on such cargo/container, declared in the 
manifest (IGM/EGM).  
 
 (b). When a vessel carries another vessel as cargo for discharging in the 
Port, either on the quay, jetty or foreshore (wharf), or loads another 
vessel as cargo on board itself from such wharf of the Port, in such 
cases, such loaded or unloaded vessels are ‘cargo’, on which cargo 
related charges including ‘wharfage’ are leviable. 
 
 
3.1.4. Volume/ quantum discount on wharfage charge .  
 
3.2. Demurrage Charges - * 
 
*Refer 3.2.1(a)& (b) 
 
3.2.1.   Free period-  
 
*Refer 3.2.1(a)& (b) 
 
Sl. 
No. Description Free period in days  
Import Export 
1. Dry bulk Cargo  * * 
2. Other than Dry bulk (except Timber log & Project Cargo) * * 
3. Timber log * * 
4. Project Cargo * * 
5. Hazardous Cargo / Chemicals * * 
6. Transhipment Cargo  * * 
7. Shutout Cargo subsequently shipped in another vessels * * 
8. Salvaged goods  * * 
* as per guidelines issued from time to time.  
 
Notes:  
 
(1). For the purpose of calculation of free period, Customs notified holidays and 
the port’s non-working days shall be excluded.  
   
(2). Free period for imports: 
 
 (a). Free period for imports shall be reckoned with from the day following 
the day of complete discharge of vessel’s cargo.  
 
(b). Free period in respect of cargo discharged in lighters in stream shall 
- 47 - 
 
commence from the day of complete landing of the cargo on the 
wharf from the lighters.   
 
(c). In case of removal of the vessel from the berth for any reason 
whatsoever before complete discharge of the manifested quantity, the 
free period shall start for the cargo so discharged from the time of the 
complete discharge of cargo from the vessel.  
 
(d). When import cargo is stored in demurrage terms and then converted 
into re-export, free period will be considered from the date of filing of 
export documents like shipping bill.   
 
(3). Free period for Export: 
 
(a). Free period for exports shall commence from the date on which the 
cargo is brought in the port area on demurrage basis. The demurrage 
will cease from the day following the date of berthing of vessel.  
 
(b). In case of stream loading, the demurrage will cease from the day of 
loading of first barge. Demurrage will cease for the total cargo actually 
loaded through barges to the vessel in the same voyage.   
 
(c). Free period for export cargo taken back for any reason shall 
commence from the time the export cargo is again brought into the 
port area.   
 
(4). No free period shall be allowed on goods brought into the port premises and 
removed from there without shipment.  
 
(5).  Any period during which goods are detained by the Port Health Officer   
before being destroyed shall be excluded from the calculation of free 
storage period. 
 
3.2.1(a) Imports 
 
Transit storage charges at the following rates shall be levied in respect of all 
goods left in the port’s Transit sheds or open space after the expiry of the free 
days and free periods till their delivery is effected. 
 
Sl. No. Classification  Unit Rate 
1 Goods lying in the 
Transit sheds or in the 
open transit space  Per wharfage unit 
per day (a) first week ₹5.083 
(b)  second week 
₹8.884 
(c) succeeding period  
₹12.696 
 
 
 
 
 
- 48 - 
 
Notes: 
 
1. Free days 
 
(i). Free days prescribed below shall exclude customs holidays and Port’s non 
working days. 
 
(ii). For Foreign Cargo: Seven working days (excluding customs holidays and   
           Port’s non working days) following the date of the complete discharge of    
           the goods from the vessel in case of Bulk or Break Bulk cargo. 
 
(iii).     When goods are landed from the vessel into lighters, barges or other  
           floating craft, the seven working days shall be calculated from the date of    
           complete discharge of goods from the lighters, barges or other floating craft  
           on the jetties, quays or wharves. 
  
(iv)    The first week after the expiry of the free days is considered as normal    
          transit storage charges and subsequent weeks are considered as  
          demurrage charges. 
 
(v). In the case of salvaged goods, the free days shall be reckoned from the 
day following the date of notification of salvage by the Receiver or wrecks 
in the Official Gazette of Karnataka State. 
 
(vi).     Fifteen days of free period (inclusive of Customs / Port Holidays)for Break 
bulk and bulk category of coastal cargo’  
 
 
2. Free period: 
 
The following free periods shall be allowed in addition to the free days prescribed 
above: 
 
(i). Periods during which the goods are detained by the Collector of Customs 
for examination under sub-section (3) and (4) of section 144 of the 
Customs Act 1962 (152 of 1962), other than the ordinary process of 
appraisement and certified by the Collector of Customs to be not 
attributable to any fault or negligence on the part of importers, plus one 
working day.  The Customs holidays shall also be treated as free periods in 
addition. 
 
(ii). Periods during which the goods are detained by any public Health Authority 
whether cleared or destroyed. 
 
3. Survey of Goods 
 If the goods are detained for survey, then a period not exceeding seven 
days excluding Customs holidays and Port’s non-working days, from the 
date of completion of discharge from the vessel may be excluded while 
calculating the storage charges provided the goods are removed within 
twenty four hours after the completion of the survey. 
- 49 - 
 
 
4. Empty or partially empty packages. 
 Transit storage charges shall be payable on packages landed empty or 
partially empty. 
 
5. Transit Storage charges on Sundays and Port Holidays  
 Once Transit storage charges begin to accrue, no allowance shall be made 
for Sundays and port holidays 
 
6. Delivery of goods  
 Goods shall not be delivered to owners or consignees unless all dues 
leviable thereon, including transit storage charges are paid. 
 
7. Congestion of goods 
 If at any time the Port apprehends a serious congestion in the transit area 
which may effect rapid transit of goods through the Port, it may direct the 
owners or consignees of any specified goods to remove such goods from 
the port premises within a specified period. 
 
8. If the goods are not removed within a specified period, the Port may cause 
them to be removed and restacked in any other place within the Port 
premises at the expense and the sole risk of the owner or consignees.  
Goods so removed shall be charged Transit storage charges at the rates 
prescribed in the Schedule of Transit storage (Imports) at (c) in Sl.No.1 or 2 
whichever is applicable. 
 
3.2.1(b) EXPORTS 
  
            Transit storage charges at the rate of Rs 5.083 per wharfage unit shall be 
levied after the expiry of the free days. 
 
Notes: 
 
1. Free days  
 
(i). Free days shall exclude the Customs holidays and port non-working days  
 
(ii). All cargo except salvaged goods (a) Twenty Oneday free days(excluding 
Customs holidays and Port’s non-working days) from the actual date of the 
receipt of goods in the transit area. (b) From the date the vessel is berthed 
for working cargo to the date of the vessel completes loading. 
 
(iii). For salvaged goods, three days (excluding Customs holidays and port’s 
non-working days) from the date on which the goods were actually 
salvaged. 
 
2. Shut out cargo 
 
(i). In the case of goods shut out from shipment and if removed outside, in 
addition to the free days mentioned in Note 1, the working day next to the 
- 50 - 
 
date of completion of taking in of the exports by the vessel also be allowed 
as a free day. 
 
(ii). In the case of goods shut out by one vessel and subsequently shipped by 
another vessel the free days shall count from the date of the first shut out, 
up to ten days excluding Customs holidays and port’s non-working days.  
The total free period, however, shall not be more than 21 days as specified 
in Note 1. 
 
(iii). Cargo intended for export but not actually shipped will be allowed free days 
up to only seven days excluding Customs holidays and port’s non-working 
days from the actual date of receipt of the goods in the transit area. 
 
 
3. Free periods 
 In addition to the free days prescribed above, the period during which 
goods are detained by the Collector of Customs for examinations under 
Sub section (3) and (4) of Section 17 and for chemical test under Section 
144 of the Customs Act, 1962, other than the ordinary processes or 
appraisement and certified by the Collector of Customs to be not 
attributable to any fault or negligence on the part of the exporters, plus one 
working day shall also be allowed as free period.  The Customs holidays 
shall also be treated as free periods in addition. 
 
4. Congestion of goods 
 If at any time the Port apprehends a serious congestion in the transit sheds 
or other spaces allotted for the goods in transit to the detriment of the rapid 
transit of goods through the Port, it may direct the owner or consignor or 
Agents of any specified goods to remove such goods from the Port premises 
within a specified period.  If the goods are not removed within such period, 
Port may cause them to be removed and restacked in any other place within 
the Port premises at the expense and the sole risk of the owner or 
shipper/agents. Transit Storage charges shall be levied on such goods in 
accordance with the rate specified for Transit storage on export cargo. 
 
5. Transhipment of Goods 
 The free period shall be allowed for the transhipment cargo up to 28 days 
excluding Customs holiday and port’s non-working days from the date of 
receipt of the goods. 
 
General Notes : 
1. Transit Storage charge on both import and export cargo shall not accrue for 
the period when the NMPA is not in a position to deliver/ship cargo when 
requested by the user. 
2. If operational area is licensed on rental terms to users, storage charge on 
cargo stored there-at shall not be levied again. 
 
3.2.2.  Schedule of Demurrage charges  
 
On expiry of free days as prescribed in Schedule 3.2.1, demurrage will be 
- 51 - 
 
charged for period of storage of all cargo at the rates prescribed below:  
 
Sl. 
No. Description Rate per MT per day or part thereof  
(in `) 
Open space  Covered space  
1.  Import   
(i). For the first ___ days * * 
 (ii). For the next ___ days * * 
 (iii). For the next ____days * * 
 (iv). For the next ____days * * 
2.  Export    
(i) For the first  ___ days * * 
(ii) For the next ___ days * * 
(iii) For the next ____days * * 
(iv) For the next ____days * * 
3. Transhipment    
 (i) For the first  ___ days  * * 
 (ii) For the next ___ days  * * 
 (iii) For the next ____days  * * 
 (iv) For the next ____days  * * 
 
* as and when applicable.  
 
Notes: 
 
(1). Demurrage charge on both import and export cargo shall not accrue for 
the period when the port is not in a position to deliver/ ship cargo when 
requested by the user.  
 
(2). If operational area is licensed on rental terms to the users, demurrage 
charges on cargo stored thereat shall not be levied again.  
 
(3). The demurrage charges on hazardous goods shall be levied at 50% above 
the normal rates specified in above schedule.  
 
(4). Demurrage on export goods brought in for shipment by a particular vessel 
and shut out but subsequently shipped by another vessel shall be charged at 
the rates applicable for export cargo as per the schedule in the scale of rates 
for the entire period till the goods are shipped or removed from the port 
wharf. In the event the shutout cargo is removed without being shipped, the 
demurrage charges as applicable for export cargo shall be levied till the 
goods are removed from the date of entry. 
 
(5). Demurrage on goods detained by Customs :  
 
(a). Where goods are detained by the Commissioner of Customs on 
account of Import/ Export Control formalities and certified by the 
Commissioner of Customs to be not attributable to any fault or 
negligence on the part of the Importer/ Exporter, for such period of 
detention under 5(i) and 5(ii), the demurrage charges shall be 
recovered as under:  
 
First 30 days of detention : Free 
- 52 - 
 
 
31 days to 60 days           : 50% of applicable demurrage charges  
 
Beyond 60 days               :  100% of applicable demurrage charges 
 
The first 30 days shall be reckoned with as follows:  
 
(i). First 30 days after expiry of free days if cargo is detained by 
the Customs before expiry of free days and, 
 
(ii). First 30 days from the date of detention if cargo is detained by 
the Customs after accrual of demurrage charges. 
 
The detention certificate for availing the above concession shall be 
submitted within a period of six months from the date of detention of 
goods.  
 
 
(6).  Unclaimed Goods  
 
Unclaimed goods when sold by the Port Administration under the rules in 
force, a free period of 30 days shall be allowed from the date of acceptance 
of the bid by the port.  
 
3.3.1. Storage charges (License fee) for transit cargo for storage  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*as per Estate SOR 
   
Note: 
 
(1).  Application for storage spaces shall be made before storage of goods to the 
Port or its authorised official.  
 
(2).  Storage charges (Licence fees) shall be paid in advance. Penal interest, as 
prescribed in General Terms and Conditions in Chapter I shall be levied on 
the amount due but not paid from the date on which the amount becomes 
due till the date of actual payment which shall in no case exceed 7 days. If, 
for any reason, payment is delayed beyond 7 days from the date of the 
amount becoming due occupation will be treated as unauthorised. 
 
(3).  The space allotted shall be vacated on notice from the Port or its authorised 
official failing which it will be treated as unauthorised occupation; and, the 
Port Authorities shall take other action, as deemed fit. Item 
No. Particulars 
of the Area Period of 
occupation Open space  Covered space  
Rate per sq. mtr(s) 
or part thereof /per 
month/ week or part 
thereof. ( ` ) Rate per sq. mtr(s) 
or part thereof /per 
month/ week or 
part thereof. ( ` ) 
Paved Unpaved  
1. *  * * * 
2. *  * * * 
- 53 - 
 
  
(4).  Any unauthorised occupation of storage spaces shall be liable for payment 
of double the Storage charges (Licence fees), as a penalty.  
 
(5).  The Port shall have the right to take over the storage space, allotted on 
Storage charges (Licence fees) basis, which are unoccupied/empty without 
any prior notice in the interest of the Port operation. In such cases, 
proportionate reduction in Storage charges (Licence fees) shall be allowed. 
 
(6).  Cargo stored under the Storage charges (Licence fees) basis shall remain 
at the licensee’s risk and the Port or any of its officers shall not in any 
manner be liable for any pilferage, theft, damage or any loss whatsoever 
thereof.  
 
(7).  The licensee shall not be permitted to sub-let the land or shed covered by 
the licence or any portion thereof. For any contravention of this condition, 
the licence is liable to be cancelled. 
  
(8).  If operational area is licensed on to users Storage (Licence fees) basis, 
demurrage charges on cargo stored therein shall not be levied again. 
 
3.3.2. Fee for space allotted for Management of Cargo Operation (Other 
than for cargo storage)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*as per Estate SOR 
 
Notes: 
 
(1).  The Application for allotment of space under schedule 3.3.2 is applicable for 
the land inside the custom notified area for carrying cargo activities viz. 
placing chowkey, porta cabin, etc. 
  
(2).  The notes 2 to 7 given under the schedule 3.3.1 shall mutatis mutandis  
apply for this schedule. 
 
3.4. Charges for handling cargo (labour charges): 
 
3.4.1. Charges for supply of labour / staff  
 
 
 
 Item 
No. Particulars 
of the Area. Period of 
occupation Open space  Covered space  
Rate per sq. mtr(s) 
or part thereof /per 
month/ week or part 
thereof. ( ` ) Rate per sq. mtr(s) 
or part thereof /per 
month/ week or 
part thereof. ( ` ) 
1. *  * * 
2. *  * * 
- 54 - 
 
Sl. 
No. Commodity/ 
Activity Unit Supply of On Board 
Labour  Supply of Shore 
Labour 
Coastal 
Rates 
(In `) Foreign 
rates  
(In $) Coastal 
Rates 
(In `) Foreign 
rates  
(In $) 
1. Dry Bulk (Non 
Mechanised) 
(i),  
(ii). 
(iii). Per MT * * * * 
2. Break Bulk 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) * * * * 
3. Containers * * * * 
4.       
5.       
 
 
*as and when applicable. 
 
Notes:  
 
(1). The above charges shall be paid by the Stevedoring/ Shore Handling agent 
prior to the engagement of labour. 
 
(2).    The charges prescribed above shall be levied in addition to levy of wharfage    
 for supply of labour by the Port 
 
(3). The charges prescribed above are inclusive of gear. In case of supply of 
gear by the Stevedoring/ Shore Handling/ vessel agent, a rebate of ______ 
% shall be given in the rates prescribed above (wherever applicable in ports).  
 
(4). The piece-rate incentive shall be payable by the Stevedores at actuals 
separately in addition to the above charges.  
 
 
 
3.5. Schedule of Charges for use of Port Owned Harbour Mobile Crane 
(HMC): 
 
Sl. No. Type of Cargo  Rate Per Tonne (In `) 
Coastal 
(in `) Foreign- going 
(in $) 
(I). For Dry Bulk Cargo  * 
 * 
(i). Iron Ore * 
 * 
(ii). Coal * 
 * 
(iii). Fertilizers  * 
 * 
    
(II) For Break Bulk Cargo    
(i). Bagged Cargo * * 
- 55 - 
 
 
(ii). Steel * 
 * 
(iii). Plant & Machinery  * * 
(iv). Yarn, cotton and wool raw, waste or 
manufactured staple fibre  * 
 * 
    
(III) Other Break Bulk Cargo    
(i). Project Cargo * * 
(ii). Timber Logs * * 
(iii). Other General Cargo * * 
 
*as and when applicable 
 
 
Notes: 
 
(1). The Hire charges will commence from the time of dispatch of the 
equipment, subject to maximum transit time of ___ minutes, provided the 
equipment so dispatched is made available for operation at work site.  
 
(2). The period of detention on each occasion for ___ minutes & above on 
account of breakdown of equipment & withdrawal of the equipment by the 
port for its own work during the period of requisition will be excluded for 
computation of the period of hire. 
 
(3). For booking of HMCs the requisition along with proof of payment of 
Booking Charge must be deposited ___hours prior to the commencement 
of shift. The equipment will be provided subject to availability of staff and 
equipment(s).  
 
(4). The users will be solely responsible for damages to equipment and Port 
property that may occur or result during the working of equipment as per 
requisition on account of any reason such as overloading of crane under 
coaming improper slinging of cargo etc. The parties shall make good of the 
damages (fair wear & tear except) and pay the Port all cost for repairing of 
damage and replacement actually incurred. 
 
(5). The parties are allowed to cancel the equipment before or after it is 
supplied to them as per requisition by giving ___hour notice. 
 
(6). Booking charges of _____ per crane is required to be paid. In case of 
cancellation of booking by the user for the reason not attributable to port, 
only 50% of the booking charges will be refunded. In case of non- utilization 
of crane, no refund will be given. In case cancellation of booking by Port 
due to reasons attributable to port full amount of refund of booking charges 
will be made. Booking charges will be adjusted against the actual billing. 
Booking charges will not carry any interest. 
 
(7)      No shifting charges shall be levied by the port in case shifting of a vessel    
           from berth to another berth/ anchorage becomes necessary due to                 
- 56 - 
 
           breakdown/ non- performance of MHC. 
 
3.6.  Mandatory User Charges:  
Description  Rate 
Mandatory User Charges     * per container 
 
*as per existing policy. 
 
Note: 
The port shall levy Mandatory User Charges on all containers except 
transshipment and coastal containers for the Logistics Data Bank (LDB) services 
to be rendered by Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor Development Corporation 
(DMICDC). 
  
3.8. Terminal charges for handling NON-EXIM Cargo at NMPA Railway 
Marshalling Yard  :   * 
 
*As per the Ministry orders issued from time to time 
 
  
3.9. Royalty Charges for Stevedoring and Shore Handling activities:   *  
 
*As per the Trade Notice issued from time to time 
 
 
 
 3.7. Charges for use of bunkering facility alongside berths:  
Description  Unit Foreign 
(in ₹) Coastal 
(in ₹) 
For providing bunkers alongside berth(s)/anchorage 
through fixed pipelines or loading arms or flexible 
hoses of users or through mobile trucks/trainers/barges MT 45.58 31.73 
 
- 57 - 
 
CHAPTER- IV 
 
CONTAINER HANDLING CHARGES 
 
 
CHARGES ON CONTAINER AND CONTAINERISED CARGO 
 
4.1.  Composite box rate for container:  
 
Sr. 
No. Description Rate 
Not Exceeding 20' 
in length Exceeding 20’ and 
up-to 40’ in length Over 40" in 
length 
Coastal 
(In Rs`) Foreign 
(In Rs) Coastal  
(In Rs) Foreign 
(In RS) Coastal  
(In Rs) Foreign 
(In Rs) 
1. Loaded  315.36 524.69 472.36 787.69 630.69 1050.72 
2. Empty Container  150.30 250.94 225.45  375.72 300.59 500.52 
3. Over 
Dimensional 
Laden Container * * * * * * 
        
        
 
Note:  Composite box-rate for container prescribed above covers wharfage and basic 
container handling services of ship to shore transfer, movement between berth 
and yard and lift off at yard or vice versa. 
 
*as and when applicable. 
 
 
 
(a).Wharfage charges for Hazardous containers : 
Sl. 
No
. Container Size  Rate per container  
Empty Loaded 
Foreign(in 
₹) Coastal(in 
₹) Foreign(in 
₹) Coastal(in 
₹) 
1 Upto 20’ 161.03 96.60 805.14 483.10 
2 Above 20’ and 
upto 40’ 241.54 144.94 1207.71 724.62 
3 40’ and above 322.05 193.24 1610.27 966.18 
 
 
     (b). Wharfage Charges for other types of containers (including Reefer  
            containers): 
Sl. 
No
. Container Size  Rate per container  
Empty Loaded 
Foreign(in 
₹) Coastal(in 
₹) Foreign(in 
₹) Coastal(in 
₹) 
1 Upto 20’ 107.34 64.41 536.76 322.05 
2 Above 20’ and 
upto 40’ 161.04 96.60 805.14 483.10 
3 Above 40’   214.72 128.82 1073.50 644.10 
 
 
 
 
 
- 58 - 
 
(c) Storage charges: 
Sl. 
N
o
.Container Size Rate per container per day or part thereof  
Foreign (in US $)  Coastal (in ₹) 
1 Upto 20’ 0.574 25.50 
2 Above 20’ and upto 40’ 1.15 50.98 
3 Above 40’   1.72 76.48 
 
 
(d) Electricity and monitoring charges for Reefer container: 
Sl.No. Container Size Rate per 4 hours or part thereof per 
container 
(in ₹) 
1 Upto 20’ containers  216.05 
2 Above 20’ and upto 40’ 
containers 261.67 
3 Above 40’  containers 308.63 
 
 
4.2.  Composite Charges for Transhipment Container:  
Sr. 
No. Description Rate (In `) 
Not Exceeding 20' 
in length Exceeding 20’ and 
up-to 40’ in length Over 40" in 
length 
Coastal 
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) 
1. Transhipment 
rates if both legs 
are foreign * * * * * * 
Laden * * * * * * 
Empty  * * * * * * 
2. Transhipment 
rates if both legs 
are coastal  * * * * * * 
Laden * * * * * * 
Empty  * * * * * * 
3. Transhipment 
rates if one leg 
is foreign and 
one leg is 
coastal  * * * * * * 
Laden * * * * * * 
Empty  * * * * * * 
*as and when applicable. 
 
Notes: 
 
(1). The above rates include wharfage, ship to shore transfer, transportation 
from quay to container yard including lift-off at the yard and subsequent 
transportation from container yard to quay including lift on at yard and 
shore to ship transfer. 
 
(2). In case of Over Dimensional transhipment Container, the rate will be 
_______ times the rate for normal transhipment container. 
 
- 59 - 
 
4.3. Rebate: 
 
Sr. 
No. Description  Rate 
Not Exceeding 20' 
in length Exceeding 20’ and 
up-to 40’ in length Over 40" in 
length 
Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) 
1. For ship to shore 
transfer or vice-
versa by ship’s 
crane/party hired 
crane   * * * * * * 
Laden * * * * * * 
Empty  * * * * * * 
2. For movement 
between berth 
and yard by 
trailer hired by 
the party.  * * * * * * 
Laden * * * * * * 
Empty  * * * * * * 
3. For lift off / lift on 
at yard during 
the process of 
landing/shipment 
by equipment 
hired by the 
party. * * * * * * 
Laden * * * * * * 
Empty  * * * * * * 
 
*as and when applicable 
 
Note: 
 
In case any of the basic container handling services covered under the Composite 
charges prescribed in 4.1 and 4.2 above is not provided by the port, rebate(s) at 
the above rates shall be allowed on the composite rate for use of ship’s 
crane/party hired crane for ship to shore transfer, use of party hired trailer for 
movement between berth and yard, lift-off at yard or vice versa. 
 
4.4.  Charges for lift on/lift off at yard during delivery/ receiving:  
 
Charges for lift on for delivery or lift off at Yard during delivery/receiving 
shall be levied at the following rates on all containers: 
 
Sr. 
No. Description Rate 
Not Exceeding 20' 
in length Exceeding 20’ and 
up-to 40’ in length Over 40" in 
length 
Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) 
1. Laden/Empty 
Container other 
than Over 
Dimensional 
Container  * * * * * * 
- 60 - 
 
2. Over 
Dimensional 
Container * * * * * * 
 
*as and when applicable 
 
4.5.  Shutout Containers / Back to Town Containers:  
 
Sr. 
No. Description Rate 
Not Exceeding 20' 
in length Exceeding 20’ and 
up-to 40’ in length Over 40" in 
length 
Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) 
1. Shutout charges       
2. Transportation 
of shutout 
container from 
any place in the 
port to quay and 
back to the 
designated area 
irrespective of 
location inside 
the terminal. * * * * * * 
3. Back to town 
charges on 
container 
brought into the 
port for export 
and is not 
shipped for 
whatsoever 
reason * * * * * * 
 
 
*as and when applicable 
 
Notes:   
 
(1). Shut out charges are not to be levied on the following instances 
(a). When a vessel is required to sail with shut outs for accommodating 
another vessel on port request. 
(b). When containers could not be loaded on board by port due to break 
down of cranes. 
(c). When containers could not be loaded on board due to bad weather 
conditions.  
 
4.6.  Reefer Monitoring and Connection:  
 
 
Sr. 
No. Description Rate 
Not Exceeding 20' 
in length Exceeding 20’ and 
up-to 40’ in length Over 40" in 
length 
Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) 
1. Additional * * * * * * 
- 61 - 
 
charges per 4 
hours of part 
thereof for 
electricity 
consumption 
and monitoring 
of reefer 
containers 
(i). Laden * * * * * * 
(ii). Empty  * * * * * * 
 
*as and when applicable 
 
 
Note:   
Additional electricity charges at the prescribed rates will be applicable in case of 
Reefer/ Restow containers also. 
 
4.7.  Hatch Cover Charges for services rendered to the container vessels: 
 
A. Opening of Hatch cover and replacing it: 
 
Sr. 
No. Description Rate per Hatch cover  
Not Exceeding 20' 
in length Exceeding 20’ and 
up-to 40’ in length Over 40" in 
length 
Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) 
1. When placing it 
on the quay * * * * * * 
2. Without placing 
it on the quay * * * * * * 
 
*as and when applicable 
 
 
 
Note:  If only one operation is carried out, half of the hatch cover handling charges 
as above shall be levied.  
 
B. One Hatch to another Hatch or within the same Hatch: 
 
Sr. 
No. Description Rate  
Not Exceeding 20' 
in length Exceeding 20’ and 
up-to 40’ in length Over 40" in 
length 
Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) 
1. Hatch to hatch 
shifting 
(involving 1 
move only) 
 * * * * * * 
2. Other than (a) 
mentioned 
above * * * * * * 
 
*as and when applicable 
- 62 - 
 
 
 
4.8. Stuffing / De-stuffing Charges: 
 
Sr. 
No. Description  Rate 
Not Exceeding 20' 
in length Exceeding 20’ and 
up-to 40’ in length Over 40" in 
length 
Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In $) 
1. * * * * * * * 
2.        
3.        
*as and when applicable  
 
4.9. Demurrage Charges on Container: * 
 
Sr. 
No. Description Rate  
Not Exceeding 20' 
in length Exceeding 20’ and 
up-to 40’ in length Over 40" in 
length 
Coastal 
Rates 
(In `) Foreign 
rates  
(In $) Coastal 
Rates 
(In `) Foreign 
rates 
 (In $) Coastal 
Rates 
(In `) Foreign 
rates 
($) 
1. Import Laden       
 First __ days Free Free Free Free Free Free 
 __to __ days       
 __to __ days       
 Thereafter       
2. Laden empty       
 First __ days Free Free Free Free Free Free 
 __to __ days       
 __to __ days       
 Thereafter       
3. Transshipment 
Containers        
 First __ days Free Free Free Free Free Free 
 __to __ days       
 __to __ days       
 Thereafter       
4. ICD Import & 
Export –Loaded 
moved by Road        
 First __ days Free Free Free Free Free Free 
 __to __ days       
 __to __ days       
 Thereafter       
5. ICD Import & 
Export – Empty 
moved by Road        
 First __ days Free Free Free Free Free Free 
 __to __ days       
 __to __ days       
 Thereafter       
6. ICD Import & 
Export – Loaded 
or Empty moved 
by Rail        
 First __ days Free Free Free Free Free Free 
- 63 - 
 
 __to __ days       
 __to __ days       
 Thereafter       
 
 
*as and when applicable  
 
 
Note: 
 
(1). Free dwell-time (storage) allowed shall be exclusive of Customs notified 
holidays and port non-working days.  
 
(2). Free dwell-time (storage) period for import containers shall commence from 
the day after the day of landing of the container and for export containers 
the free period shall commence from the time the container enters the 
terminal. 
 
(3). The total storage period for a shutout container shall be calculated from the 
day following the day when the container has become shutout till the day of 
shipment/delivery. 
 
(4). Over high and over dimensional containers shall attract _____times the 
normal demurrage charges.  
 
(5). Hazardous containers shall attract premium ___% of the normal applicable 
demurrage charges. The premium of ___% shall be applicable for all types 
of charges like handling, dwell time, shut-out, etc. for hazardous containers. 
 
(6). The storage charges on abandoned FCL containers/ shipper owned 
containers shall be levied upto the date of receipt of intimation of 
abandonment in writing or 75 days from the day of landing of the container, 
whichever is earlier subject to the following conditions: 
 
 (a). The consignee can issue a letter of abandonment at any time.  
(b). If the consignee chooses not to issue such letter of abandonment, 
the container Agent/ MLO can also issue abandonment letter subject 
to the condition that,  
(i). the Line shall resume custody of container along with cargo 
and either take back it or remove it from the port premises; 
and  
(ii). the line shall pay all port charges accrued on the cargo and 
container before resuming custody of the container.  
 
(c). The container Agent/ MLO shall observe the necessary formalities 
and bear the cost of transportation and destuffing. In case of their 
failure to take such action within the stipulated period, the storage 
charge on container shall be continued to be levied till such time all 
necessary actions are taken by the shipping lines for destuffing the 
cargo.  
 
- 64 - 
 
(d). Where the container is seized/ confiscated by the Custom 
Authorities and the same cannot be de-stuffed within the prescribed 
time limit of 75 days, the storage charges will cease to apply from 
the day the Custom order release of the cargo subject to lines 
observing the necessary formalities and bearing the cost of 
transportation and de-stuffing. Otherwise, seized/ confiscated 
containers should be removed by the line/ consignee from the port 
premises to the Customs bonded area and in that case the storage 
charge shall cease to apply from the day of such removal.   
 
4.10. Charges for Miscellaneous Services rendered to container/container 
vessel:  
Sr. 
No. Description Rate 
Not Exceeding 20' 
in length Exceeding 20’ and 
up-to 40’ in length Over 40" in 
length 
Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In `) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In `) Coastal  
(In `) Foreign 
(In `) 
1. Shifting / 
transportation of 
containers from 
one yard to 
another yard 
within the 
terminal for 
custom 
inspection or any 
other purpose 
and subsequent 
loading of 
containers for 
delivery * * * * * * 
(i) Laden * * * * * * 
(ii) Empty  * * * * * * 
2. Additional 
service charge 
for stacking 
containers in 
designated yard 
for custom 
examination or 
any other 
purpose by prior 
arrangement * * * * * * 
(i) Laden * * * * * * 
(ii) Empty  * * * * * * 
3. 
 Shifting of 
containers on 
board via quay 
head   * * * * * * 
4 Shifting of 
containers on 
board without via 
quay head * * * * * * 
5. Transportation / 
shifting of 
container by port 
for operation not * * * * * * 
- 65 - 
 
included in 
Composite 
charge 
(a). Within same 
Berth / Yard * * * * * * 
(b). Between two 
berths / Yards  * * * * * * 
6. Additional Lift 
on/Lift off to/from 
trailer/wagon or 
restacking  * * * * * * 
 
*as and when applicable  
 
Note: 
 
For Sr. No.3 & 4 above: 
 
In case additional port equipment is required additional charges will be levied as 
per the rate specified in this SOR. 
 
 
4.11.  Re-Stowcharges:  
 
Container manifested for other destination, unloaded and reloaded in the same 
vessel in the same voyage, the following rates will be levied: 
Sl. Container Size  Rate per container  
Empty Loaded 
Foreign(i
n ₹) Coastal(in 
₹) Foreign(in 
₹) Coastal(in 
₹) 
1 Upto 20’ 41.60 25.50 68.45 41.60 
2 Above 20’ and upto 
40’ 61.75 37.58 103.34 61.73 
3 Above 40’   81.86 49.65 136.87 81.86 
General Notes : 
 
1. Wharfage on containers is collected irrespective of the contents of the 
containers. 
 
2. The stuffed cargo removed from the container and cargo meant for stuffing 
in the container stacked in transit area other than the space allotted on 
lease for that purpose will be liable for Transit storage as applicable to the 
cargo specified in Chapter V Transit storage. 
(i). Containerised import cargo  
 For levy of Transit storage, the free days for import cargo 
destuffedfrom the container shall count from the date following the 
date of destuffing. 
 
(ii). Containerised Export cargo 
 For levy of Transit storage, the free days for export cargo shall be 
reckoned    from the date on which cargo is admitted in the transit 
area and Transit storageleviable, if any shall be computed from the 
- 66 - 
 
day following the completion of free days till the cargo has been 
stuffed into containers. 
 
3. The applicant shall accept all risks and responsibilities for goods stored at 
the rental space allotted and shall make his own arrangement for security 
of the goods stored in such spaces. Hire charges for port equipment 
whenever utilised by the shipper will be charged separately according to 
the Scale of Rates in force from time to time.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
- 67 - 
 
CHAPTER- V 
 
MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES 
 
 
5.1. Supply of water to vessels by Port:  
 
Sl. 
No. Description  Per 
K.L/Tonne  Coastal vessel (in 
Rs.) Foreign vessel (in $) 
Rate  
 Minimum 
charge Rate  
 Minimum 
charge 
1 Water supply by 
Barges Per 
K.L/Tonne  158.61  USD 
5.97  
2 Water supply at 
Berths  *  *  
 
*as and when applicable 
 
Note:  
The minimum charges as prescribed shall be levied even if the Owner, 
Master or Agent or his authorised representative of the vessel refuses to 
take delivery of water, as requisitioned/ or cancels the requisition. 
 
5.2. Beaching charges :  
 
Sl. 
No. Description Unit Coastal 
vessel (in `) Foreign 
vessel (in $)  
1 Vessels lying idle in 
the beach  Rate per GRT per 
month or part thereof * * 
 
*as and when applicable 
 
 
5.3. Hire charges for cargo handling equipment along with 
conditionalities.  
 
Sr. 
No. Type of Equipment Unit Rate (in Rs) 
1. Forklift Truck __ MT Per hour or part thereof * 
2. Top lift Truck_____ MT Per hour or part thereof * 
3. Dozer _____ MT Per hour or part thereof  * 
4. Pay loader _____ MT Per hour or part thereof  * 
5. Reach stacker ______ MT Per hour or part thereof  * 
6. Cranes _____ MT Per hour or part thereof  * 
7. Trucks _____ MT Per hour or part thereof  * 
8. Trailers _____ MT Per hour or part thereof  * 
9. Tractors Per hour or part thereof *  
10. Transhipper Per shift or part thereof *  
11. Floating crane Per shift or part thereof *  
12. Excavator Per shift or part thereof  * 
13. Mobile crane Per shift or part thereof  * 
14. Locomotives ________HP Per shift or part thereof *  
 
*as and when applicable 
- 68 - 
 
 
 
5.4. Weighment charges for use of weighbridges / weigh scales  
 
Sl. 
No. Description Unit Rate (in Rs) 
1 For use of Weigh Bridge by trucks, trailers and 
other vehicles  Per MT Refer Sl No 
5 
2 For hiring weights scales For set per 
day or part 
thereof * 
3. For issuing weighment certificates  Per 
consignment  * 
4. For use of In-motion weighbridge for cargo 
loaded in Railway wagons 
(i) Loaded wagon 
(ii) Empty wagon Per wagon * 
5. Weighment of cargo on the Port Lorry weigh 
bridge  
Per Truck 
both ways ** 
Rs.48.22 
 
*as and when applicable 
**Refer note-(5) below. 
 
Notes  
(1).  The attendant labour shall be supplied by the parties concerned. 
 
(2).  No weighment charges are leviable if weighment is done in the interest of 
the port for the purpose of assessing Port charges. 
  
(3).  Whenever User does not utilise Weighbridge, on account of rail borne 
cargo, no weighment charges are leviable.  
 
(4). The weighment charges shall be levied on the total weight of the cargo 
weighed by the port on the weighbridges or weighing scales under each 
application for weighment, duly rounded off to the next higher MT. 
 
(5)     a) The weighbridge shall be used only for weighing lorries or carts etc.,   
                with Or  without loads 
            b).  The fee under item (a) above shall cover hire charges of passing the  
               cart or lorry etc., both empty and loaded over the weighing platform. 
c) If any empty lorry after recording the tare weight on the ports weigh 
bridge within the wharf area is not brought to the ports weigh bridge 
during the same day with a load for recording the gross weight, a fee of 
₹7.00 per lorry shall be payable by the party on whose behalf the tare 
weight is asked to be recorded. 
d) The weigh bridge shall be manned by the NMPA. 
e) The NMPA shall not be responsible to the hirer or any person for any 
loss or damage or injury to life arising directly or indirectly from the use 
of the weigh bridge during the period of its hire. The hirer shall indemnify 
the NMPA against all loss or damage or injury to life arising directly or 
indirectly from the use of the weigh bridge to any other person or 
property. The liability of the hirer shall not be affected by the fact that 
- 69 - 
 
such loss or damage or injury to life may have arisen due to any act or 
default of any employee of the port.  The hirer shall also indemnify the 
NMPA for all liabilities under the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923. 
 
5.5. Charges for fire float vessels salvage vessels etc.   
 
Sl. 
no. Description Unit Rate (in `) Minimum 
Charges 
1. For salvage and other purposes. Per hour or 
part thereof * * 
2. For stand by duties Per hour or 
part thereof * * 
 
*as and when applicable 
 
 
5.6.  Charges for carrying out bollard pull test.  
 
Sl. 
no. Description Unit Coastal 
(Rs) Foreign 
(US$) 
1. Charges for carrying Bollard Pull 
test Per hour or part 
thereof  15,552.51 569.10 
 
 Note: 
Bollard pull test charges are applicable to the tugs which are not hired by the port 
and are availing the facility. 
 
5.7. Charges for hire of Fender.  
Sl. 
no. Description Unit Coastal 
(`) Foreign 
(US$) 
1. Charges for hire of fender Per fender per day or 
part thereof * * 
           *as and when applicable 
 
 
5.8. Charges for supply of skilled personnel for marine operations:  
Sl. 
No. Description Unit Coastal 
(`) Foreign 
(US$) 
1. Supply of skilled personnel for  
person for any type of mooring and 
unmooring or any marine operation Per person per hour  
day or part thereof * 
* 
 
          *as and when applicable 
 
 
5.9. Supply of certificates/ certified copies of documents/ statistics, issue 
of permanent entry permit and token etc.  
 
Sl. 
no. Description Unit Rate 
(in `) 
1. Supply of certificate/ certified copies of 
documents/duplicate certificates/ ledger a/c 
copies/ statistics Per document * 
- 70 - 
 
2. Gazette and Advertisement cost of sale Per document *  
3. Charges for issue of certificates/ documents 
from Port records Per document *  
4. Document amendment charges Per document *  
5. Wharf Entry permit to Authorized visitors. Per person  *  
6. Daily Wharf Entry Permit (any one time 
customer) Per person per day *  
7. Weekly Wharf entry permit (All category of port 
users) (for 2 to 7 days) Per person  *  
8. Wharf Entry Permit for wharf entry alone. (Bio-
metric card) (For CHA, SA, Stevedores, EXIM, 
Surveyors, Ship Chandlers, truck/ equipment 
operators, Govt Agencies, C&F agents, Ship 
repairers, fumigators, palletizing agents, 
workers from KHWWB etc.) (More than three 
months upto one year) Per year *  
9. School/College students group upto 50 
members (plain paper pass)  Per day per group *  
10. Crew working on launches / Barge / Boat (Smart 
Card / Laminated Photo Card) (Port may decide) *  
11. Duplicate biometric card in the event of loss / 
damage Per Card *  
12. Issue of RFID Card Per card *  
13. Issue of RFID Tag Per tag *  
14. Duplicate Card in the event of loss Per card *  
15. Duplicate Tag in the event of loss Per tag *  
 
*Refer 5.9 (a).  
 
 
Notes:    
 
(1).  No charges shall be levied from non-commercial Department of 
Government of India , State Governments , Committees appointed by 
Governments, Press Agencies or their representatives requiring statistics 
for publication in press.  
(2).  No fee shall be charged for issue of passes / token to employees of the 
Port. 
 
 
5.9 (a) Fees of issue of passes/licence for entry into the wharf: 
 
Sl.No. Classification  Rate  
(in ₹) 
1 For issue Entry pass for individual  (per head)  
i) Daily 5.43 
ii) One month 108.61 
iii) Six months 217.21 
iv) One year 434.43 
2 Issue of entry pass for bus, authorized trucks carrying 
passengers (per vehicle per day) 130.32 
3.a) Issue of entry pass for commercial vehicles  
i) Daily 21.72 
ii) One month 434.43 
- 71 - 
 
iii) Six months 760.25 
iv) One year 1357.59  
b) Issue of entry pass for Individual and Commercial Vehicles   
i) Daily 27.16 
ii) One month 488.73 
iii) Six months 814.55 
iv) One year 1629.10  
4. a) Issue of entry pass for light motor vehicles (Car/ Jeep/ Van)  
i) Daily 10.86 
ii) One month 271.51 
iii) Six months 651.64 
iv) One year 1086.06  
b) Issue of entry pass for individual and light motor vehicles 
(Car/Jeep/Van)  
i) Daily 16.30 
ii) One month 325.82 
iii) Six months 814.55 
iv) One year 1357.59  
5 Issue of entry pass for private cargo handling equipment   
i) Daily 130.32 
ii) One month 814.55 
iii) Six months 3801.24  
iv) One year 6516.41  
 
Notes: 
 
1. The deposit cost of the RFID card will be ₹150/- (Rupees One Hundred and 
Fifty only). 
 
2. The Deposit cost of the RFID Tag will be ₹210/- (Rupees Two Hundred and 
Ten only). 
 
3. This deposit cost of the RFID card and Tag is refundable after physical 
verification of the card / tag if is in usable condition. RFID card and Tag are 
reusable. 
 
4. The entry passes shall be issued by the NMPA. 
 
5. The payment of the charge will not automatically entitle a person to get a 
pass. 
 
6. The temporary pass shall be valid for a day for which it is obtained from 
zero to zero hours. 
 
7. The NMPA may issue temporary passes free of charge to the distinguished 
guests to the port, visiting staff of other Major Ports and other Govt. 
Officers/ officials connected with the Port Authority and visiting the Wharf 
on official duty. No charges shall also be collected from the employees of 
- 72 - 
 
the Port holding valid identity cards and other shipping interests holding 
valid photo passes issued by the NMPA. 
 
8. Only persons who have harbour entry passes will be issued with temporary 
vehicles entry passes on payment of the above prescribed fee and it is not 
transferable. 
 
9. No refund will be allowed for the charges once paid for temporary vehicle 
entry passes issued by the Port. 
 
10. Drivers of vehicles (with permanent entry passes) are exempted from the 
payment for entry into the Wharf. 
 
11. No refund will be allowed for the charges once paid for the entry passes 
issued for the vehicles covered by item above for unexpired period. 
 
12. Vehicles i.e. carriers of goods belonging to the New Mangalore Port 
Authority and other major Port Authorities alone shall be exempted from 
holding an entry passes. 
 
13. Any other vehicles not covered by above may be exempted from charge 
under the scale of rates at the discretion of the NMPA. 
 
14. No refund is permissible for the unexpired period of entry passes. 
 
15. Whenever damage to the NMPA property is caused by any vehicle plying 
within the NMPA foreshore premises, the owner of the vehicle shall accept 
liability thereof and pay the damages resulting therefrom. 
 
5.10. Fumigation of cargo.  
 
Sl. 
no. Description Unit Rate (in `) 
1. * Per MT  
2. *  
 
*as and when applicable  
 
 
5.11. Charges for Fire fighting equipment/ apparatus:  
 
Sl. 
No. Description Unit Rate (in `) 
1. Fire Tender [All types of fire tenders]  Per Tender  
Per Hour or part 
thereof ** 
2. Shore pumps Per pump per hour 
or part thereof * 
- 73 - 
 
3. Other firefighting equipment and 
apparatus excluding fire floats. Per apparatus per 
hour plus 
consumable at cost  * 
 
**Refer 5.11 (a) 
*as and when applicable  
 
5.11 (a). 
 
Sl. 
No. Description Unit Rate (Rs.) 
1. Charges for hire of fire tender hr Rs.4082 per hr 
2. Charges for hire of  fire tender km Rs. 27 per Km 
 
Note:  In case the deployment of any equipment to combat fire hazard caused due 
to any leakage of Liquid / Gas Pipelines or Oil spillage from any vessel, the 
charges for the same shall be levied on the owner of the pipelines / agent 
of the vessel irrespective of whether any requisition for the same is given or 
not. Further, in such case the cost of Foam (along with supervision cost of 
____ %) used to contain the Fire hazard shall also be recoverable. 
 
5.12.  Diver’s fees.  
 
Sl. no. Description Unit Rate (in `) 
1. *   
2. *   
 
*as and when applicable  
 
 
5.13.  Salvage fees.  
 
 Sl. no. Description Rate (in `) 
1. Salvage charges will be levied @ 20% ad-valorem on 
the value of the salvaged goods subject to a minimum 
of Rs.______  
* 
 
 
*as and when applicable  
 
 
5.14. Granting permits for Motor Lorries, Mobile Crane etc. to ply in the 
Docks.  
 
Sl. 
No. Description Unit Rate 
 (in `) 
1. Motor Lorries and Local Chassis 
   (i) Fresh permits and renewals for every quarter  
   (ii) Duplicate 
   (iii) Fresh permits and renewals valid for the day of 
issue Each *  
2. Mobile Cranes and Forklifts 
   (i) Fresh permits and renewals for every quarter  
   (ii) Duplicate Each *  
- 74 - 
 
   (iii) Fresh permits and renewals valid for the day of 
issue 
3. Container handling equipments 
   (i) Fresh permits and renewals for every quarter  
   (ii) Duplicate 
   (iii) Fresh permits and renewals valid for the day of 
issue Each *  
4. LMV 
   (i) Fresh permits and renewals for every quarter  
   (ii) Duplicate 
   (iii) Fresh permits and renewals valid for the day of 
issue Each *  
5. Buses, Mini Buses, Passenger Van 
   (i) Fresh permits and renewals for every quarter  
   (ii) Duplicate 
   (iii) Fresh permits and renewals valid for the day of 
issue Each *  
6. Two Wheelers  
   (i) Fresh permits and renewals for every quarter  
   (ii) Duplicate 
   (iii) Fresh permits and renewals valid for the day of 
issue Each *  
7. Taxi 
Fresh permits and renewals valid for the day of 
issue Each *  
 
 *Refer 5.9 (a).  
 
 
5.15. Passenger fees (other than Cruise vessel) 
Sl. 
No. Description Unit Coastal 
(`) Foreign 
(US$) 
1. For embarkation Per person * * 
2. For disembarkation Per person * * 
 
        *as and when applicable  
 
5.16.  Charges payable by visitors at Passenger Berths  
 
Sl. 
No. Description Unit Rate  
(in `) 
1. For a bonafide visitor to the passenger berth in the Docks 
on the day of embarkation and disembarkation of the 
passengers. Per 
head * 
 
*as and when applicable  
 
 
5.17. Use of deballast tank, transfer/inter-transfer of POL products.  
 
Sl. no. Description  Unit Rate (in `) 
1. *   
2. *   
 
       *as and when applicable  
- 75 - 
 
 
 
5.18. Charges for removal of goods by the port in case importer/exporter 
fails to remove the goods.  
 
Sl. no. Description  Unit Rate (in `) 
1. Removal of cargo Per M.T. or part thereof * 
2. Removal of Hazardous waste / Sludge  Per MT or part thereof * 
         *as and when applicable  
 
 
Note:  
The removal charges shall be in addition to the storage charges wherever 
applicable.   
 
 
 
5.19. Issue of licenses .  
 
Sl. 
no. Description Duration Rate per license  
 (In Rs ) 
Fresh Renewal  
1. Stevedoring and Shore handling license  * * 
2. Steamer Agents   * * 
3. Ship Chandelling  * * 
4. Ship Repairing  * * 
5. Other trader licenses  * * 
6. Fresh Water Issue license  * * 
 
*Refer 5.19 (a).  
 
  
5.19 (a) Fees for issue of Licence to C&F Agency 
 
Sl.No. Description  Rate (in ₹) 
1 New Licence 30,990 for two calendar 
years 
2 Renewal within the period of licence for a 
further period of two calendar years  3,714 per licence 
3 For issue of duplicate licence when the 
original is lost or defaced 368 per licence 
4 For temporary licence for a period not 
exceeding one year 12,390 for one calendar 
year 
 
 Note:  
 i) ‘Conversion from Temporary C&F Agency registration to Permanent or Renewal 
of C&F registration shall be effected only if the licensee has handled 
Cargo/Containers of an average of  minimum four vessels per annum at the Port 
during the previous license period’..  
ii) Failure to renew the License within one month of Expiry entails cancellation of 
the license’. 
 
- 76 - 
 
 Fees for issue of licence to Steamer Agency 
 
Sl.No. Description  Rate (in ₹) 
1 New Licence 30,990 for two calendar 
years 
2 Renewal within the period of licence for a 
further period of two calendar years  3,714 per licence 
3 For issue of duplicate licence when the 
original is lost or defaced 368 per licence 
4 For temporary licence for a period not 
exceeding one year 12,390 for one calendar 
year 
 
Note: 
i) Conversion from Temporary Steamer Agency registration to Permanent or 
Renewal of Steamer Agency registration shall be effected only if the licensee has 
handled an average of minimum Four vessels per annum or provided other 
ancillary Vessel Management services like Crew Sign on / Sign off etc,.to an 
average of  minimum four vessels per annum during the previous license period’.                                  
           ii)  Failure to renew the License within one month of Expiry entails cancellation of  
            the license’. 
 
5.20. Labour license fees for employing labour for handling certain cargoes. 
 
Sl. 
no. Description Unit Rate (in `) 
1. *   
2. *   
 
        *as and when applicable  
 
5.21. Charges for use of the slipway.  
 
Sl. 
No. Description Unit Rate (in `) 
1. Slipway Charges Per Shift of 8 hours or part 
thereof * 
 
        *as and when applicable  
 
5.22. Taking photographs or shooting films in the port premises.  
 
Sl. No. Description Unit Rate (in Rs) 
1. Making Feature films / Documentary films/  
For shooting of films by film making 
company or private parties Per Day or Part 
thereof 5,43,037 
2. For still photographs of export/import 
cargoes or vessel on request of port user 1,253 
   
 
 Note: No charges shall be refunded in case of cancellation.  
 
- 77 - 
 
Notes: 
 
1. The permission shall be issued by the NMPA or any official authorised by 
it. 
 
2. Still photographs taken and shooting film by the State and Central Govt. for 
education and scientific purposes and in connection with Govt.Publicity and 
shipping activities are exempted from paying charges. 
 
3. Any other cases of taking still photographs and shooting of films within the 
perimeter wall or in the Port premises shall be at the discretion of the NMPA on 
merit of each case. 
 
4. The charges shall be paid in advance and no refund of such payments 
shall be allowed for any failure/cancellation of the programme. 
 
5. If the cancellation of programme is at the instance of the Port or under 
extraordinary circumstances the charges paid shall be refunded subject to the 
claim in time. 
 
6. The hire charges for any craft and or appliance of the Port if any, that are 
supplied and used by the film making company or by those taking photographs 
shall be levied as per the respective provisions of the Scales of Rates in addition 
to charges payable under this scale. 
 
 
 
5.23. Landing Charges for Helicopters  
 
Sl. 
no. Description Unit Rate (in `) 
1. Use of helipad for landing of helicopters 
belonging to State Government, Public Sector 
Undertakings and private users.  Per 
Landing/ 
per takeoff * 
          *as and when applicable  
 
Note: 
Helicopters carrying passengers declared as Port guests may be exempted from 
such charges. 
 
 
5.24. Vehicle parking fee inside Port premises  
 
 Parking charges for usages of open area for parking of cargo/container 
handling equipment like Mobile Cranes, Forklifts, Reach Stackers, JCBs, 
etc. inside the Docks. 
                                                                                                                (Rate in `) 
Sl. No. Description Up to eight (8) hours  For every hour 
thereafter 
1. Mobile Cranes * * 
2. Forklift * * 
3. TLT/Reach Stacker * * 
4. JCB / Excavator * * 
    
- 78 - 
 
    
 
         *as and when applicable  
 
5.25. Toll Charges ( if applicable )  
(Rate in `) 
Sl. No. Type of Vehicle   
Daily 
  
Monthly  
  
Quarterly  
 Half yearly   
Yearly 
 
1. *      
2. *      
 
       *as and when applicable  
 
 
5.26. Schedule of charge for Operation of Mobile X-Ray Container 
Scanning System:  
 
Sl. 
No. Description  Unit Rate in ` 
1. Charges for Operation of Mobile X-Ray Container 
Scanning System  TEU * 
 
       *as and when applicable  
 
 
5.27. Marshalling yard usage charges  
 
Sl. No. Description  Unit Rate (in `)  
1. * Per sq. mtr. * 
2. * Per sq. mtr. * 
   
         *as and when applicable 
 
 
Sl.No. Description Rate per M.T.  
(in ₹) 
1. Use of Marshalling yard outside wharf 20.95 
2. Use of Marshalling yard including private siding inside 
the wharf 26.65 
3. Marshalling yard usage charges for handling 
containers (outside wharf): Rate per Box 
(in ₹) 
(i). For 20" Empty (Flat Rack/ Open Top/ Dry/ RF/ Tank) 50.76 
(ii). For 40" Empty (Flat Rack/ Open Top/ Dry/ RF/ Tank) 76.16 
(iii). 20" Dry/ FR/ OT Laden 507.75 
(iv). 40" Dry/ FR/ OT Laden 634.67 
(v). 20" Reefer/ Tank Container Laden 634.67 
(vi). 40" Reefer/ Tank Container Laden 761.63 
4. Marshalling yard usage charges including private 
siding inside the wharf for handling containers: Rate per Box 
(in ₹) 
(i). For 20" Empty (Flat Rack/ Open Top/ Dry/ RF/ Tank) 63.47 
(ii). For 40" Empty (Flat Rack/ Open Top/ Dry/ RF/ Tank) 101.56 
(iii). 20" Dry/ FR/ OT Laden 634.67 
- 79 - 
 
(iv). 40" Dry/ FR/ OT Laden 787.00 
(v). 20" Reefer/ Tank Container Laden 787.00 
(vi). 40" Reefer/ Tank Container Laden 913.95 
 
Notes - ‘For the delay in the production of Railway Receipt Copy and the necessary 
Railway Marshalling Yard Charges after 48 hours of the placement of rake, the user shall 
pay interest at the rate of 15% per annum’ 
 
5.28. Charges for Issue of RFID Tags:  
 
Sl. 
No. Description  Unit Rate in ` 
1. All types of vehicles like cargo vehicles, cargo 
handling equipment, contractors’ vehicles 
(material), passenger vehicles (car, etc.) Per Vehicle * 
2. In case of loss or damage of RFID tags, the same 
shall be issued on recovery of RFID Tags charges Per Vehicle * 
 
        *as and when applicable  
 
5.29. Cleaning charges: 
 
5.29.1.Dust Suppression Levy  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
           *as and when applicable  
 
5.29.2.Pollution Cess: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           *as and when applicable 
 
5.30. Improper/ unsafe Pilot ladder, improper Boarding/ disembarking 
arrangements, inability to provide Combination Ladder:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sl. 
No. Description  Unit Rate in ` 
1. Iron Ore   Tonne * 
2. Coal and Coke Tonne  * 
3. Cement and cement 
clinker Tonne 
* 
4. Break bulk Tonne * 
Sl. 
No. Description  Unit Rate in ` 
*    
    
    
Sl. 
No. Description  Unit Coastal 
(in `) Foreign- going 
 (in US $) 
1. When Free Board of 
vessel is greater than 9 
mtrs Per vessel 
*  
 
* 
- 80 - 
 
            *as and when applicable  
 
 
5.31. Fishing harbour:   
 
5.31.1.Consolidated charges for mechanized fishing boats/ Trawlers (Mini & 
Big)  
 
Sl. 
No. Particulars Unit of levy Frequency of 
Payment Rater per 
month 
1. Mechanised Fishing 
Boat Per Boat  Per Calendar month * 
2. Fishing Trawler 
[Mini] Upto 14 NRT Per Trawler Per Calendar month * 
3. Fishing Trawlers 
[Big] Above 14 NRT Per Trawler Per Calendar month * 
  
*as and when applicable  
 
Notes: 
(1).  The above consolidated charges are inclusive of port dues, berth hire and 
wharfage.  
(2).  The consolidated charges are collected irrespective of stayal of days at 
Fishing harbour during the Calendar Month.  
 
5.31.2. Charges for Government scientific survey of marine resources and 
training operations  
 
Sl. No. Particulars  Unit  Rate (in `) 
1. Fishing Trawler [Mini] Upto 
14 NRT Per Day or part 
thereof per Trawler * 
 
2. Fishing Trawlers [Big] 
Above 14 NRT Per Day or part 
thereof per Trawler * 
 
*as and when applicable  
Note: 
(1). For Government Survey/ Training Vessels i.e. CIFNET, FSI & CIFT 
involved/ deployed for scientific survey of marine resources and training 
operations, the Berth hire as specified above is applicable. 
(2). No Port dues and Wharfage charges are charged on the Government 
Survey/ Training vessels.  
 
5.32. Hiring charge of Oil Spill Response equipment: 
 
Sr. No. Particulars  Unit Rate (in `) 
1. Multi skimmer Per 
equipment 
per day or 
part 
thereof * 
2. Oil spill dispersant applicator + Shore Cleanup 
Equipment  * 
3. Permanent boom 25 mtr section with accessories * 
4. U Boom 200 mtrs + power pack with accessories * 
5. Air blower with accessories * 
6. RO Boom with accessories * 
7. Weir Skimmer with accessories * 
8. Flex barge (10 MT) with accessories * 
- 81 - 
 
9. Boom Reel with accessories * 
 
*as and when applicable  
 
Note: 
Rate specified for above equipment is exclusive of cost of consumables and fuel 
which would be chargeable extra at cost plus 19.25% supervision cost basis. In 
case of any tug/launch and/or labours are provided by Port for handling the 
equipment, the charges for the same shall be levied extra as per SOR. 
 
 
 
5.33. Other Miscellaneous Charges: 
 
Sl. No. Description Unit Rate (in Rs.) 
1. Supply of tally staff for tallying loading/ 
unloading of wagon at siding. Per axle * 
2. Supply of staff for escorting lorry. Per shift 
per head * 
3. Deployment of extra labours (on requisition 
by port users). Per shift 
per labour * 
4. Hire of Locomotive Per hour or 
part thereof 
subject to a 
minimum of  
______  * 
5. Infringement, Local Haulage, Terminal 
Charge and Wagon Hire /Demurrage charge. Rate as 
notified by 
the Rly. 
Board from 
time to time 
shall be 
levied.  * 
6. Cleaning charge for handling of Coking coal, 
all types Coke & Ore, Limestone, Sulphur, 
Rock Phosphate, Cement, Pyroxenite, 
Dolomite, Clinker, Soda Ash, Finished 
fertilizers and Pulses.  Per MT * 
7. Charges for the use of electric pump for 
supply of sea water  Per hour ** 2421.26 
 
*as and when applicable  
 
Note: The rate specified under sr. no.6 above shall be levied on the total quantity landed/ 
shipped by a vessel. 
        ** i)Total monthly hours will be rounded off to nearest units, i.e., Hours for calculation   
           Of monthly demand. 
           ii)The charges prescribed above for supply of sea water will be charged as per 
actual usage of electric pump. 
 
 
5.34. Dry Docking Charges 
 
- 82 - 
 
5.35. Dwell Time Charges for Motor Vehicle / Equipments 
(Import/Export/Transhipment)   
Sl. 
No. Description  Gross Weight of the Motor Vehicle/Equipment in MT  
Less than 10 Ton  More tha n 10 Ton  
1. 1 - 10 days Free Free 
2. 10 - 20 days  ₹196.75/- per day per vehicle / 
equipment ₹393.50/- per day per vehicle / 
equipment 
3. Thereafter ₹393.50/- per day per vehicle / 
equipment ₹788.27/- per day per vehicle / 
equipment 
 
Notes: 
 
1. Free days shall exclude the Customs holidays and Port non-working days. 
 
2. The Dwell charges shall be levied for storage inside the Port other than the area 
leased out for the purpose of storage of vehicle/equipment. 
 
3. Dwell time for import/transshipment of motor vehicle/equipment shall be 
calculated from the day following the day of landing. 
 
4. Dwell time for export of motor vehicle/equipment shall be calculated from the day 
following the day of receipt in NMPA. 
 
5. Shut out charges for not loading on the vessel for which the vehicle/equipment is 
brought in is `50/- per vehicle/equipment 
 
 
 
5.36.    Ancillary service charges for Cargo Drying: 
 
S.L Description  Amount (₹) 
1 Ancillary Service Charges for cargo 
Drying  One month license fee for paved area land 
as prescribed in the SOR (NMPA Land 
SOR) 
2 Pollution charges for Cargo Drying as 
an ancillary service. 16 per M.T 
 
 
 
5.37. Pollution  Mitigation charges:  
 
Description  Amount ( ₹) 
Pollution  Mitigation charges  on declared quantity for Export 
of iron ore (other than K.I.O.C.L) handling at berths of NMPA.  
 16 per ton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 83 - 
 
5.38  Penalties for safety management violations inside wharf:  
Sl.No Particulars  Amount (Rs.)  
1. The Trade license from the Traffic Dept should be 
obtained / renewed one month prior to its expiry non 
compliance 1000 
2. Any work carried out without obtaining work permits--  
- Legal recourse further non compliance 
 5000 per day + Consequential 
days Legal recourse 
3. Not wearing proper PPE (helmet, safety shoes etc) 
First time- 
Second time – 
Further failing- -1000/ worker+5000 to the 
employer of the worker 
- 1000/worker+10000 to the 
employer of the worker 
- cancellation of license/ work 
order 
4. Trucks not maintained well and not having proper 
number plates in all four sides of the truck 500/- per truck.  
 
5. Truck fund without helper , horn, signal etc - 1500/- + Consequential 
damages claims 
6. Speed limits - over speeding  vehicles 1000/truck and debarring/ black 
listing the driver + Vehicle for 
one week or in serious cases 
upto six months 
7. Parking on ' no Parking zones and blind spots’  3000/- per day. 
8. Non Compliance to the Statutory provisions and Safety 
Rules 
- further non compliance -50,000/- 
 
-- Legal recourse 
9. Damage to any port property Damage claims + extra fine . 
10 Prohibition of Smoking , alcoholism and drugs . If 
found under the influence ,.  
 port entry to be denied 
11. Carrying out welding or cutting without a valid permit 
or proper isolation in proximity to flammable materials Immediate revocation of hot 
work license + fine upto Rs. 2 
Lakhs penalty 
 
12. Vessel safety deficiencies (pilot ladder, life rafts, ropes 
etc) Rs. 2 Lakhs penalty 
13. Operating unsafe equipment (cranes , forklifts etc) Rs. 2 Lakhs penalty 
 
14. Fatal accident due to negligence revocation of the license + 
criminal prosecution + fine upto 
Rs. 50 Lakhs 
 
15. Major oil spill Rs.5 Lakhs penalty 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 84 - 
 
CHAPTER- VI 
 
AUTHORIZED SERVICE PROVIDERS CHARGES (other than BOT Operators) 
 
6.1. Schedule for charges for Harbour Mobile Crane (HMC) 
Sl. No. Type of Cargo  Average Daily 
Crane  
Performance (In 
Metric Tonnes)  Rate Per Tonne  
(in `) 
Coastal 
(in `) Foreign- 
going (in 
US $) 
(I).  For Dry Bulk Cargo     
(i) Iron Ore * * * 
(ii) Coal * * * 
(iii) Steel * * * 
(II)  For Break Bulk Cargo  * * * 
(i) Bagged Cargo * * * 
(ii) Plant & Machinery  * * * 
(iii) Yarn, cotton and wool raw, waste 
or manufactured staple fibre  * * * 
 Steel & Bagged Cargo * * * 
 Oher than Steel and Bagged 
Cargo * * * 
(III) Other Break Bulk Cargo  * * * 
(i) Project Cargo * * * 
(ii) Timber Logs * * * 
(iii) Other General Cargo * * * 
 
*as and when applicable  
 
 
Note: 
The above rates prescribed for average daily crane performance (Bench mark 
performance) is the base rate which will be enhanced to 105% for first thousand 
tonnes and for 2nd thousand tonne is the rate will be enhanced to 110% of the 
base rate. In case of under performance by thousand tonnes the rate will be 
reduced by 95%.  
 
Note: 
(1) The formula for calculation of average berth-day output is as follows: -  
 
 
Total Quantity loaded / unloaded by HMC X 24 hrs.  
Total time taken from commencement to completion of 
loading/discharging of cargo 
 
(i) According to the average berth-day output for the vessel from 
commencement to completion of loading / discharge of cargo, the 
appropriate rate of crane hire charge will be chosen for recovery 
from Port users for the full quantity of cargo loaded / discharged. 
 
- 85 - 
 
(ii) If one HMC works with another HMC or ELL crane/s, the Berth-day 
output for the crane will be ascertained on the basis of the quantity 
as recorded by the HMC’s load meter. 
 
(iii) In case of breakdown of the crane for more than one hour till the 
vessel leaves the berth, the quantity handled by HMC will be 
determined taking into account cargo loaded/ discharged prior to 
break-down divided by crane working hours and multiplied by 24. 
 
(iv) In case of stoppages of operation of HMC for reasons not 
attributable to the HMC, appropriate allowance will be allowed to the 
crane while calculating the total time of crane operation in the 
vessel. No allowance will be allowed for stoppages attributable to 
the HMC. All stoppages in loading/ unloading operations during 
working of HMC are required to be certified by the port officers in the 
daily vessel performance report. 
 
(v) No shifting charges shall be levied by the Port in case shifting of a 
vessel from berth to another berth/ anchorage becomes necessary 
due to break down/ nonperformance of HMC.  
 
(vi) In case of dispute on the average output, the decision of the Port 
Authority will be final and binding. 
 
(vii) Crane should be booked with advance notice of ___ hour. 
 
(viii) Booking charges of `._____ per crane is required to be paid. In case 
of cancellation of booking by the user for the reason not attributable 
to port, only 50% of the booking charges will be refunded. In case of 
non-utilization of crane, no refund will be given. In case cancellation 
of booking by port, due to reasons attributable to port, full amount of 
refund of booking charges will be made. 
 
(ix) Crane hire charges are required to be paid in advance on base rate 
at the time of booking on Quantity mentioned in Shipping bill in case 
of export or quantity mentioned in bill of entry in case of import. 
Advance payment and Booking charges will be adjusted against the 
actual billing. Booking charges and advance payment will not carry 
any interest. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 86 - 
 
CHAPTER- VII 
 
RAILWAY SERVICES CHARGES * 
 
 
*as and when applicable  
- 87 - 
 
CHAPTER- VIII 
 
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS  
 
 
Sl. No. Performance Parameters  Performance 
Standards 
(1) Cargo Related Services    
(a) Average Ship Berth day Output (in MT) in 
respect of Major Cargo groups           18700 
(b) Average moves per hour (in TEUs) in respect of 
Containers  
     
(2) Vessel Related Services    
(a) Average Turnaround Time of Vessels (in hrs) 37 
(b) Average Pre-Berthing Time of Vessels (in hours) 7 
   
(3) Any other parameters found relevant by the Port  
 
 
 